abahan~culture
abak~Ouch
abak~ai
abak~Good grief
abak~results
abak~prosperous
abak~profit
abakna~the result
abakna~prosperity
abakna~Fortunately
abalabal~just so
abalabal~bad quality
abalabal~coffin
abalabal~chaotic
abalabal~it's obsolete
abalabal~tube
abalabal~water tube
abalabal~bamboo tube
abalan~place
abalan~rendezvous
abar~wander
abara~shoulder
abara~shoulders
abara~responsibility
abarana~his shoulder
abas~tongue
abat~century
abat~trouble
abat~hinder
abat~constraint
abat~obstacle
abatabat~various obstacles
abatabat~trial
abatabat~obstacle
abatabat~obstacle
abatabat~constraint
abatabat~barrier
abatabat~inhibitor
abatabat~obstacle
abatabat~challenge
abingan~lap
abis~finished
abit~dress
abit~cloth
abit~shirt
abit~clothes
abor~prohibition
abor~forbidden sign
abuk~insisted
abuk~forced
abul~reply
abulan~reply
abur~scattered
abur~Linang
abur~hoarse
abur~sprinkle
adam~death
adam~end of life
adang~roam
adang~around
adang~wandering around
adangi~explore
adangi~surround
adap~face
adaran~mainland
adaran~plain
adaran~expanse
adaran~field
adaran~wilderness
adaran~Meadow
adaran~courtyard
adaran~field
adat~custom
adat~rule
adat~habit
adat~culture
adat~mark
adat~norm
adat~manners
ado~search
ado~wander
ado~wander
adong~There is
adong~is at
adong~present
adong~available
adongdonian~exists
adongma~is
adongna~exists
adop~face
adop~present
adop~breast
adop~meeting
adop~invitation
adopadop~breasts
adopadop~face to face
adopadop~breast
adopan~front
adopi~facing
adopi~attend
adopi~meet
adu~racing
adu~blood gushing
adu~Chase
adu~next
adu~stand
adui~far away
adui~there
adui~sipolan
ae~suffering
ae~flavor
aek~water
aekna~the water
aena~it feels like
aga~Good grief
aga~proud
agak~guess
agak~approximately
agak~more or less
agak~take it into account
agak~like
agak~guess
agan~though
agan~although
aganan~better
aganan~prefer
aganan~although
agar~clean
agar~Beautiful
agar~sweet
agar~dapper
age~lazy
agia~whatever
agia~even
agia~even though
agia~although
agia~even
agia~though
agia~although
agia~although
agin~world
ago~fooled
ago~difficult
ago~hoax
ago~wow
agoago~lost
agoan~lost
agoi~Ouch
agon~more
agong~charcoal
agong~wood charcoal
ah~No
aha~shave
aham~what are you
ahamu~what are you
ahana~What
ahana~his
ahana~his
ahaon~what
ahap~flavor
ahaphon~feel it
ahapi~taste it
ahit~collected
ahom~between
ahu~I
ahu~me
ahu~I
ahurangan~lack
ahut~take
ahut~gondol
ahut~rake
ai~Because
ai~therefore
ai~Why
ai~how come
ai~because
ai~oh...
ai~because of
aiaga~Ouch
aiat~paragraph
aiat~Nas
aik~is
aik~just in case
aili~wild boar
aili~wild pig
aili~wild boar
ain~adoption
ain~lift
ain~make it
aing~No
aing~not true
aing~Yes, right
ait~take
ait~hook
ait~pull
ajaha~read it
ajal~death
ajal~destiny
ajar~teach
ajar~build
ajar~educate
ajar~train
ajar~advice
ajar~advice
ajarajar~advice
ajarajar~advice
ajari~teach
ajari~advise
aji~poison
ajiajian~spells
ajiajian~spell
ajiajian~magic
ak~crotch
ak~mid
ak~waist
ak~back
akor~get along
ala~that
ala~Because
ala~therefore
ala~by
ala~because
alai~However
alai~whereas
alai~But
alai~but
alai~although
alai~although
alaman~page
alaman~yard
alaman~courtyard
alamat~address
alamat~forecast
alamat~who informs
alamat~who reported
alamat~who delivers
alame~Stupid
alana~the reason
alana~that
alana~Because
alana~therefore
alana~why
alang~not enough
alang~less
alang~hesitant
alang~not clear
alang~not quite enough
alang~not enough
alang~not until
alangalang~hanging around
alangalang~hesitant
alangalang~disinclined
alangalang~half
alangalang~half-half
alangalang~not quite enough
alangan~obstacle
alangan~constraint
alangan~inhibitor
alangan~obstacle
alani~Because
alani~therefore
alani~because
alani~cause
alani~therefore
alap~pick up
alapi~pick up
alat~watch out
alat~psychic
alat~predictions
alat~predict
alat~predictions
alat~write
alatan~psychic
alatan~sign
alatan~predictions
alatan~forecast
albang~take lots
albang~o'clock
albas~blow
albas~nudge
albas~touch
albas~tripped
aleale~bro
aleale~best friend
aleale~friend
aleale~buddy
aleale~Friend
aleale~close friend
aleale~best friend
alealehu~my friend
alealehu~my best friend
alealehu~my friend
alealem~your friend
alealem~your best friend
alealem~your friend
alealemu~your friend
alealemu~your best friend
alealemu~your friend
alealena~his friend
alealena~his best friend
alealena~her friend
algip~rongrong
algip~swallow
algip~swallow whole
ali~change
ali~life suffers
ali~rewards
ali~misery
ali~trouble
ali~bad luck
ali~replacement
ali~disaster
ali~short
ali~swap
alimos~shadow
alimos~meaning
alimos~equivocal
alimos~faintly
alimos~a moment
alimoshon~imagine
alingan~aide
alingan~minion
alingan~assistant
alingan~servant
alingan~orders
alit~switch
alit~foreign
alit~complicated
alit~other
alit~twist
alit~circumference
alit~Sick
alit~sprained
alit~offended
alit~twist
alkohol~alcohol
allam~underestimate
allam~insult
allam~abuse
allam~insult
allang~Eat
allanghon~eat
allangi~eat
allangon~food
allap~until
allong~left behind
alo~fight
alo~against
alo~enemy
alo~enemy
alo~match
alo~challenge
aloalo~rival
aloalo~balanced
aloalo~slimy plants
aloalo~challenge
alogo~wind
alogo~air
alom~slow
alom~your opponent
alom~your enemy
alomi~your opponent
alomi~your enemy
alomu~your opponent
alomu~your enemy
alona~his opponent
alona~his enemy
alop~please
alpas~nudge
alpas~touch
alpo~sad
alsip~suction
alsip~suck it
alsip~pull
alu~fight
alu~report
alu~complain
alu~rice pounder
alualu~complaint
alualu~complaint
alualu~problem
aluhon~stir
aluhon~tell you
aluhon~report
aluhonon~stir
aluhononhu~I mixed it up
alum~satisfied
alus~answer
alus~response
alusan~answer
alusanna~the answer
alusi~answer
alusi~said
alusihonoku~I answered
alusna~he answered
alut~massage
alut~sort
ama~Father
ama~father
ama~Sir
ama~host
amabiar~Afraid
amak~mat
amam~your father
amam~your father
amam~your father
amam~your father
amana~his father
amana~his father
amang~Father
amang~biological father
amang~father
amang~Sir
amangamang~man
amangamang~husband
amangamanghu~my man
amangamanghu~My husband
amangamangna~his man
amangamangna~her husband
amanghu~my father
amanghu~my father
amangjo~Ouch
amangjo~Good grief
amangmi~your father
amangmi~your father
amangmu~your father
amangmu~your father
amangmu~your father
amangmu~your father
amangna~his father
amangna~his father
amangoi~Ouch
amangoi~Good grief
amangoi~wow
amangtahe~Ouch
amangtahe~Good grief
amata~Father
amata~our father
amata~father
amata~our father
ambal~fall
ambal~thrown away
ambal~blown away
ambal~thrown
amban~Why
ambang~light
ambar~pond
ambar~pool
ambar~swamp
ambar~dam
ambar~reservoir
ambat~adang
ambat~prevent
ambat~intercept
ambat~hinder
ambat~resistor
ambat~latitude
ambat~stand
ambatambat~barrier
ambatambat~inhibitor
ambati~prevent
ambiatan~back
ambil~care
ambil~glorify
ambil~value
ambil~heed
ambil~care
ambitan~back
ambolong~wasted
ambolong~scattered
amborgo~cold
amborgoon~freezing
ambul~reliable
ambul~capable
ambulan~mainstay
ambung~lightly
ambung~easy
ambung~light
amburet~anus
amburet~human butt
amburuk~anus
amburuk~human butt
amen~amen
amen~closing prayer
amen~agreed
amen~agree
amo~Be careful
amo~Be careful
among~Father
among~father
among~Sir
amonghu~my father
amonghu~my father
amongmi~your father
amongmi~your father
amongmu~your father
amongmu~your father
amongna~his father
amongna~his father
amot~protect
ampa~wise
ampal~shaking
ampal~thrown away
ampal~blown away
ampal~thrown
ampang~basket
ampara~family
ampe~location
ampe~mat
ampehon~put it down
ampehon~lean on
ampin~defend
ampini~defend
ampit~suitable
ampit~aligned
ampit~harmonious
amporik~sparrows
amporik~paddy field bird
amporik~sparrow
amporotan~snorted
amporotan~choked
ampu~answer
ampu~welcome
ampuan~lap
ampudan~youngest
ampuna~owner
ampuna~possession
ampuna~owner
ampuni~forgive
amun~right
an~That
an~there
ana~watch out
ana~write
anaha~my child
anak~child
anak~baby
anak~sons and daughters
anakhi~my child
anakhu~my child
anakmi~your child
anakmu~your child
anakna~his son
anang~who knows
andak~clear
andal~beautiful
andaliman~andaliman
andang~torch
andang~fence
andap~clear
andap~Certain
andap~open
andar~present
andar~clear
andar~visible
andar~open
andar~transparent
ande~hand over
ande~hit
andehon~hand it over
andek~clear
andigan~when
andigan~when
andigan~When
andora~chest
andorang~in Century
andorang~when
andorang~moment
andorang~currently
andorang~while
andorang~during
andorang~during
andorang~since
andorang~throughout
andorang~when
andorangso~before
andorangsona~previously
andos~almost
andos~hit
andos~approaching
andos~until
andos~emphasize
anduhur~balam
anduhur~ketitir
anduhur~turtledove
anduhur~turtledove
andul~switch
andul~different
andul~very different
andul~much more
andul~other
andul~more
andul~Extraordinary
andung~wailed
andung~lament
andung~cry
andung~weeping
andungandung~lament song
andungandung~lament
andungandung~hum
anduri~wink
andurian~Porcupine
angan~wishful thinking
angan~imaginary
angan~seagrass
angat~ruse
angat~hoax
anggap~turn
anggap~take care
anggap~accompany
anggap~Wait
anggar~proud
anggas~watch out
anggas~write
anggi~younger brother
anggi~younger sibling
anggia~sister
anggia~hi sister
anggiat~so that
anggiat~perhaps
anggiat~hopefully
anggiat~Hopefully
anggiat~Hopefully
anggiat~so
anggihi~my sister
anggihu~my sister
anggim~your sister
anggimi~your sister
anggimu~your sister
anggis~elongated
anggis~slowly
anggis~slow down
anggo~whatever
anggo~sniff
anggo~if
anggo~about
anggo~regarding
anggo~about
angguliman~saying
anggulimanna~his words
anggundea~banana
anggur~wine
anggus~fragrant
anggus~fragrant
angin~wind
angir~fishy
angir~rancid
angir~smell
angir~pee
angit~tunable
angka~para
angka~all
angkal~sense
angkal~tips
angkal~cunning
angkal~ruse
angkal~think
angkal~thought
angkal~hoax
angkal~hoax
angkal~effort
angkana~everything
angkang~brother
angkang~Older brother
angkanghi~my brother
angkanghi~my older brother
angkanghu~my brother
angkanghu~my older brother
angkangmi~your brother
angkangmi~your sister
angkangmu~your brother
angkangmu~your sister
angkangna~his brother
angkangna~her brother
angkat~adoption
angkat~jack
angkat~jump
angkat~jump
angkin~Later
angking~hanging
angking~not completed
angkiningan~just now
angkiningan~previously
angkiningan~earlier
angkip~ravenous
angkip~greedy
angkir~get along
angkir~free
angkor~get along
angkor~suitable
angku~admit it
angku~ponder
angkuh~haughty
angkula~body
angkup~with
angkup~bro
angkup~by
angkup~partner
angkup~colleague
angkup~ally
angkup~as well as
angkup~addition
angkup~Friend
angkuphu~my friend
angkuphu~my friend
angkupmu~your friend
angkupmu~your friend
angkupna~his friend
angkupna~her friend
angkur~get along
angon~faint
angon~breeze
angsur~installments
angur~fragrant
angur~fragrant
angur~fragrant
anian~comparison
anian~compare
anian~rival
aning~No
aning~maybe
aning~wait
aning~Yes, right
aninganing~application
anit~tunable
anjak~step on
anjak~jump
anjak~spike
anjal~fail
anjal~vain
anjeanje~slowly
anjeanje~regular
anjo~destitute
anju~caress
anju~sorry
anju~understand
anju~Be patient
anju~scold
anjur~suggestion
anjuran~recommendation
anjuran~suggestion
annon~Later
ansaansaan~puzzle
ansi~So
ansi~hypocritical
ansi~legitimate
ansi~hoax
ansi~craftiness
ansiat~as
ansiat~like
ansim~salty
antairihon~scared
antairihon~Coward
antairir~Coward
antak~rather
antak~approximately
antak~plump
antakna~apparently
antan~rather
antan~appraise
antan~guess
antan~weigh
antap~from the inside
antap~until
antap~until
antar~rather
antar~between
antar~clear
antar~approximately
antar~pretend
antaran~delivery
antaran~page
antaran~visible
antaran~yard
antirha~cassava
antirha~cassava
anto~care
anto~scold
antoanto~conjecture
antoanto~prejudice
antoanto~guess
antoi~interfere
antoi~Given attention to
antoi~who?
antoi~scold
antolis~insult
antong~Come on
antong~thereby
antong~So
antong~in that case
antong~so
antong~let
antong~of course
antong~also
antong~Actually
antong~actually
antong~Of course
antongan~You mean
antu~happy
antu~prosperous
antu~lucky
antu~prosperous
antuasu~Coyote
antuasu~wolf
antuk~bump
antuk~club
antuk~o'clock
anture~need
anture~suitable
anture~mind you
anture~care
anture~attention
anture~neat
anture~harmonious
anture~take care of it
anturehon~ignore it
anturehon~care
anturehon~repair
anturehon~take note
antus~understand
antus~clear
antus~understand
antus~understand
antus~responsive
antushon~explain
antushon~announce
antusi~understand
antusi~understand
antusi~understanding
aoangaoang~space
aoangaoang~airy
aoangaoang~sky
aoangaoang~air
aoas~watch out
aoas~write
aoasi~watch
aor~stir
aor~geyang
aor~shake
aor~flat
aor~brew
aor~hoarse
aos~repeated
aos~over and over again
aot~roam
aot~around
aot~visit
aoti~explore
aoti~surround
aoti~visit
apala~so
apala~Beautiful
apala~only
apala~precisely
apala~sweet
apala~minimum
apala~beautiful
apala~very
apala~as if
apala~Really
apala~truly
apangapang~pride
apas~slander
apas~despicable
apas~disgusting
api~fire
apil~teach
apil~memorize
apo~persuade
apo~entertain
apo~scold
apoapo~encouragement
apoapo~motivation
apoapo~consolation
apoapo~reprimand
apogos~poor
apoi~persuade
apoi~entertain
apoi~advice
apoi~advice
apoi~scold
apol~block
apol~obstruct
apostel~apostle
apotan~south
april~April
apul~entertain
apulapul~encouragement
apulapul~consolation
apus~wipe
apus~wipe
apusapus~wipe
apusapus~eraser
apusi~wipe
apusi~wipe
ara~invite
ara~invite
arang~charcoal
arap~please
arar~pole
arar~abundant
arar~protrude
arar~stick
aras~pity
aras~pole
arbas~loose
arbing~hanging
arbis~move it
arbis~connect
arbis~hook
arbis~tangent
ardang~song
ardang~rhyme
ardang~hum
ardo~question
ardo~take care of it
ardoan~affairs
ardoanhu~my business
ardoanna~his business
ardoi~take care of it
ardona~because
aren~enau
arga~price
arga~approximately
arga~expensive
arga~mark
arga~around
arga~tariff
arga~bid
argana~price
ari~weather
ari~day
ari~weather conditions
ari~season
ari~names of days
arian~Afternoon
arian~midday
arian?~day
ariar~stir
ariari~awaited
ariari~working days
ariari~days
ariari~daily
ariari~placenta
ariari~every day
ariari~time
arihon~have
arim~your day
arimo~tiger
arimo~striped tiger
arimu~your day
arina~the day
ariparip~codot
ariparip~bat
ariparip~Shucks
ariparip~bat
aris~the dew freezes
aris~similar
arisan~lottery club
arit~wound
arit~pointed
arjang~jump
arjang~jump
arjang~spike
arohmu~your arrival
arop~please
aropan~hope
aropan~the right time
aroroakku~my arrival
arsak~sorrow
arsak~mourning
arsak~complaint
arsak~thought
arsak~sad
arsak~difficult
arsaki~difficult
arsakmi~your complaint
arsakmu~your complaint
arsakna~his complaint
arsam~fern
arsam~resam
arsam~ferns
arsean~stiflingly hot
arsik~dry
arta~art
arta~treasure
arta~property
arta~property
artam~your treasure
artami~your treasure
artamu~your treasure
artana~his property
arti~meaning
arti~To use
arti~meaning
arti~benefit
artiastu~meaning
artihon~interpret
artihon~use
artihon~take advantage
artina~It means
artina~use
artina~the benefits
artini~It means
artini~use
artini~the benefits
aruaru~esophagus
aruaru~throat
arum~spinach
arum~fragrant
arum~fragrant
arun~fever
arun~malaria
arut~massage
arut~sort
asa~so that
asa~new
asa~let
asa~than
asa~So
asa~so
asa~so that
asa~so
asal~origin
asal~beginning
asal~basic material
asal~base
asal~If
asal~start
asal~source
asalna~origin
asam~price
asam~mark
asang~reliable
asang~fencing
asang~proud
asangasang~mainstay
asangasang~hope
asangasang~pride
asangasangan~challenge
asar~nest
ase~offerings
asi~pity
asi~love
asi~pity
asi~grace
asi~Darling
asiasi~grace
asiasi~mercy
asiasi~charity
asiasi~gift
asiasi~alms
asiasina~his gift
asihu~my love
asim~your love
asim~your grace
asimi~your love
asimi~your grace
asimu~your love
asimu~your grace
asina~pity
asina~his love
asina~his grace
asing~different
asing~other
asingna~the difference
asingna~the difference
asingni~besides
asipaninggalinmi~love
asok~Be careful
asok~Be careful
asok~slowly
asom~sour
asom~lime
asonangan~pleasure
aspal~asphalt
asrama~hostel
assim~salty
asta~amboi
asta~cubit
asta~trivial
astuan~meaning
astuan~meaning
asude~everything
asuhu~my dog
asuna~his dog
asung~slander
asung~accused
asup~threaten
asup~curse
asup~quipped
asup~swear
atak~arrange
atas~on
ate~No
ate~Of course
ate~yes
ateate~heart
ateate~liver
ateate~feeling
ateate~epigastrium
ateatehi~my heart
ateatehi~my feelings
ateatehon~my heart
ateatehon~my feelings
ateatehu~my heart
ateatehu~my feelings
ateatem~your heart
ateatem~your feelings
ateatemi~your heart
ateatemi~your feelings
ateatemu~your heart
ateatemu~your feelings
ateatena~his heart
ateatena~his heart
ateatena~his feelings
atehe~Also
atek~is
atek~if
atena~so that
atena~let
atena~so
atenang~let
atik~if
atik~is
atik~perhaps
atik~could be
atik~who knows
atik~if
atik~who knows
atik~Possible
atikna~perhaps
atikna~who knows
atim~enjoyment
atimi~enjoy
attoii~interfere
atup~facing
atup~herb
atur~set
atur~arrange
atur~system
au~I
au~I
auga~paddle
auga~yoke
auhon~admit it
auhon~keep it in mind
auhon~do it
auhon~ponder
auhon~agree
auhon~accept
aum~bribe
aup~drifting away
aut~if
aut~if
aut~if
aut~if
aut~if
ba~And
ba~while
ba~astonished speech
ba~yes
baba~muzzle
baba~mouth
babam~your mouth
babami~your mouth
babamu~your mouth
babana~his mouth
babani~his mouth
babi~pig
babiat~tiger
babiat~tiger
babiat~King of the Jungle
bada~argued
bada~bickering
bada~rowdy
bada~fight
bada~against
bada~difference
bada~question
bada~quarrel
badan~body
badan~body
badanhu~my body
badanmu~your body
badia~holy
badia~glorious
badia~magic
badia~pious
badia~often
badia~holy
baea~man
baga~reliable
baga~hope
baga~promise
bagabaga~blessing
bagabaga~blessing
bagabaga~hope
bagabaga~promise
bagabaga~good luck
bagabagam~your blessings
bagabagam~thanks to you
bagabagami~your blessings
bagabagami~thanks to you
bagabagamu~your blessings
bagabagamu~thanks to you
bagak~graceful
bagak~Good
bagak~competent
bagak~Beautiful
bagak~beautiful
bagak~beautiful
bagak~beautiful
bagak~Cool
bagak~flexible
bagak~Excellent
bagak~classy
bagak~beautiful
bagak~quality
bagak~dapper
bagak!!~Beautiful
bagak?~Beautiful
bagakdo~beautiful
bagakhu~my beauty
bagakjeges~Beautiful
bagakk~Beautiful
bagakk?~Beautiful
bagakk??~Beautiful
bagakkk~Beautiful
bagakkkk~Beautiful
bagakku~my beauty
bagaklah~be beautiful
bagakma~be beautiful
bagakmu~your beautiful
bagakmu??~your beautiful
bagakna~beautiful
bagakna~beautiful
bagakni~beautiful
bagaknya~beautiful
bagas~couplet
bagas~in
bagas~House
bagasan~in there
bagashi~my house
bagashu~My house
bagashu~my house
bagasmu~your house
bagasna~inside
bagasna~his house
bagason~interior
bage~neat
bage~Good
bage~So
bage~neat
bage~finished
bagebage~neat
bagebage~complete
bagi~for
bagi~give
bagi~distribution
bagi~fate
bagian~allotment
bagian~circumstances
bagian~fate
bagian~party
bagian~portion
bagian~destiny
bagihon~share
bagihon~give
bagong~cumbersome
bagot~sugar palm
bagot~breasts
bagot~enau
bagot~breast
bagot~Palm tree
bagot~palm tree
bagot~milk
bagot~tits
bagudung~mouse
bagul~big
bagulan~big
bagur~frog
baha~temperament
baha~characteristic
baha~character
bahal~village gate
bahal~yard
bahar~buy
bahasa~Language
bahasam~your language
bahat~Lots
bahat~compound
bahen~make
bahen~for
bahen~use
bahen~do
bahen~do
bahen~use
bahen~For
bahenan~homemade
bahenan~artificial
bahenbahenan~magic spells
bahenbahenan~potion
bahenbahenan~act
bahenmu~for you
bahenon~artificial
bahir~scattered
bahir~separated
bahir~left out
baia~man
baio~dude
baio~man
baio~man
baio~person
baion~pandan
bais~haughty
bais~reckless
bais~not care
bait~Good
bait~suitable
baja~steel
bajar~coming of age
bajar~young
bajar~Bachelor
bajar~young
bajar~teenager
bajar~young age
bajar~young age
bajarbajar~dependent child
bajarbajar~young
bajarbajar~youth
bajarbajar~young woman
bajarbajar~teenager
bajarlandit~girl
bajarlandit~teenage girl
bajarlandit~responsible girl
bajarlandit~teenager
bajik~Good
bajik~good sign
bajogit~shiver
bajogit~shock
bajogiton~shaking
bajogiton~surprised
baju~dress
baju~clothes
bajum~your clothes
bajum~your clothes
bajumu~your clothes
bajumu~your clothes
bajuna~his clothes
bajuna~his clothes
bajur~Good
bajur~carefully
bajur~work
bajur~neat
bajur~thorough
bak~Good grief
bak~easy to split
bak~easy to split
bal~ball
bala~naughty
bala~disaster
bala~disaster
bala~epidemic
balang~loyal
balanga~pot
balanga~cauldron
balanga~frying
balanga~wok
balanja~wages
balanja~wages
balanjo~provisions
balanjo~shopping
balanjo~cost of living
balanjo~daily needs
balanjo~food
balanjo~food supplies
balati~dagger
balati~knife
balatuk~ladder
balau~belau
balau~blue
balbal~slam
balbal~dreadlocks
balbal~club
balbal~bogem
balbal~mace
balbal~loose
balbal~lotak
balbal~club
balbal~o'clock
balbal~slap
balbal~smack
balbali~beat
bale~hall
bale~dose
bale~guest house
balebale~town Hall
balebale~dangau
balebale~hut
balebale~huts
balebale~cottage
balebale~bed
balebale~hovel
balerong~hall
balerong~hall
balerong~hall
balerong~sulfur
balga~grand
balga~big
balga~big
balga~fat
balga~fat
balga~chubby
balging~disappointed
balging~annoyed
balguk~big
bali~switch
bali~infectious
bali~tiny
bali~infectious
bali~apostate
bali~fire
bali~drive away
balian~the outside part
balian~outside the village
balian~ricefield
balik~turn away
balik~changed
balik~blow
balik~fall
balik~backwards
baliksa~even
balimbing~star fruit
baling~turn
baling~crooked
balingbaling~propeller
balingbaling~fan
balinsu~sprain
balinsu~sprained
balisa~nervous
baliung~pickaxe
baliung~ax
ballong~slow
ballong~slow
ballut~big
balok~limit
balok~watch out
balonghon~throw away
balos~reply
balosan~reply
baltuk~big
baltung~testicles
baltung~penis
balu~widower
balu~Widow
balunan~roll
balut~dressing
balut~wrap
balut~twist
balutan~immune
ban~law
bana~he
banda~grave
banda~burial ground
bandal~bandal
bandal~wayward
bandal~Hooligan
bandal~lasak
bandar~debtor
bandar~trader
bandar~financier
bandat~heavy
bandat~slow
bandat~slow
bandera~flag
banding~far apart
banding~separated
bandit~pickpocket
bandit~girlish
bandit~thief
bandit~ladies man
bandit~pickpocket
bandit~thief
bandol~chopped
bandol~springy
bandol~clay
banga~wide
bangal~dry
bangal~not producing
bangar~big
bangbang~roomy
bangbang~wide
bangbang~loose
bangbang~wide
bangbang~elastic
banggal~big
banggal~strong
banggang~big
banggang~strong
banggar~big
banggar~strong
banggas~persistent
banggas~strong
banggor~fever
banggor~hot
banggor~hoarse
banggor~hoarse
bangkal~arid
bangkang~old age
bangkang~too big
bangke~carcass
bangke~corpse
bangke~corpse
bangke~corpse
bangkin~upset
bangkin~gloomy
bangkin~gloomy
bangkin~difficult
bangkit~rise
bangkit~stand
bangkit~grow
bangkit~crowned
bangkit~go on
bangkit~ascended the throne
bangkit~arise
bangko~custom
bangko~morals
bangko~habit
bangko~behavior
bangko~character
bangko~temperament
bangko~behavior
bangko~characteristic
bangko~habit
bangko~character
bangkohu~my morals
bangkohu~my behavior
bangkohu~my temperament
bangkohu~my nature
bangkohu~my nature
bangkohu~my character
bangkol~unwilling
bangkol~reluctant
bangkol~slow
bangkol~slowly
bangkol~disinclined
bangkol~reluctant
bangkol~do not like
bangkom~your morals
bangkom~your behavior
bangkom~your temperament
bangkom~your nature
bangkom~your character
bangkom~your character
bangkomu~your morals
bangkomu~your behavior
bangkomu~your temperament
bangkomu~your nature
bangkomu~your character
bangkomu~your character
bangkona~his morals
bangkona~his behavior
bangkona~his temperament
bangkona~its nature
bangkona~his character
bangkona~his character
bangkoroson~caterpillar
bangkoroson~rotten
bangku~seat
bangku~chair
bango~male in nature
bango~mature
bango~dirty
bango~ripe
bangsi~pickaxe
bangsi~a kind of axe
bangso~nation
bangso~race
bangso~ethnic group
bangsona~his people
bangunan~building
bangunan?~building
bangunkon~wake
bangut~respect
banjar~line
banjar~row
banjar~village
banje~done
banje~sequentially
banje~complete
banje~slow
banje~neat
banje~finished
banje~regular
banje~complete
banjebanje~done
banjebanje~slowly
banjebanje~complete
bansat~slow
bansat~slow
bansor~pity
bansor~pity
bansor~sad
bansorna~his pity
bansorna~pity
bansorna~sadly
banua~universe
banua~continent
banua~world
banua~universe
banua~country
banuaginjang~heaven
banuam~your world
banuamu~your world
bao~besan
bao~brother-in-law
baoa~boy
baoa~guy
baoa~man
baoa~lanang
baoa~man
baoa~man
baoa~son
baoa?baoa~man
baoabaoa~man
baoahu~my man
baoahu~my man
baoahu~my son
baoam~your man
baoam~your man
baoam~your son
baoamu~your man
baoamu~your man
baoamu~your son
baoang~onion
baor~drifting away
bapbap~beat it
bapbap~torture
bapbap~oppressive
bara~coals
bara~chocolate
bara~pen
bara~under
baragas~permission
barang~goods
barang~object
barangbas~carelessly
barangbas~any
barangbas~reckless
barangna~the goods
barani~brave
barat~latitude
barbar~insert
barbar~torn
bargak~Coward
bargak~coward
bari~stale
baria~sensitive
bariba~come back
bariba~adjacent
bariba~across
bariba~side
baribari~stale
baris~line
baris~line up
barisan~line
barisan~ranks
barita~article
barita~news
barita~news
baritai~let me know
baritam~your news
baritam~your news
baritamu~How are you
baritamu~your news
baritana~the news
baritana~reportedly
barjing~disappointed
barjing~annoyed
baro~abscess
baro~cancer
baro~boil
baro~the boil
baro~ulcers
baro~scabies
barobo~catch
barosang~ferret
baru~new
baruang~bear
barukbak~destroyed
barukbak~destroy it
barutu~lump
basa~kind
basa~front
basa~gift
basa~generous
basa~likes to give
basabasa~grace
basabasa~blessing
basabasa~gift
basabasam~your gift
basabasam~thanks to you
basabasam~your gift
basabasamu~your gift
basabasamu~thanks to you
basabasamu~your gift
basabasana~his gift
basabasana~thanks
basabasana~his gift
basar~friendly
basar~likes to give
basbas~drive away
basbas~o'clock
basbas~sabet
basir~shard
basir~thorns
baso~midwife
baso~tasteless
baso~bid
basu~clean up
basu~wash
batahi~whip
batahi~whip
batahi~whip
batang~coffin
batas~limit
batas~clear
batin~inner
bating~dodgy
batis~split
batis~broken
batu~rock
batu~seed
batu~kilometers
batuk~cough
baurbaur~fluent
baurbaurhon~smooth it
baus~haughty
baus~arrogant
baus~arrogant
baus~proud
bauta~end
bauta~finished
be~Again
be~lah
be~each
be~every
be~each
bearbear~anus
bearbear~anus
bebe~pinch
bebe~gyre
bebe~sound asleep
bebe~massage
bege~hear
begeon~hearing
begu~brave
begu~ghost
begu~creature
begu~demon
beha~worried
beha~question
beha~Afraid
beha~ask
beha~surprised
behasa~Why
bejek~diligent
bekbek~talkative
belalang~mouth
belalangmu~your mouth
belek~can
benda~slow
benda~slowly
bendet~slow
bendet~not dexterous
bene~sluggish
bene~tired
bene~tired
benget~Be patient
benget~steadfast
benget~self awareness
benget~persistent
bengkuk~bent
bensut~pouting
bensut~sour face
berangkathon~leave
berangkatma~go
berdongan~be friends
bere~nephew
bere~nephew
bere~nephew
bere~nephew
bere~nephew
bereng~visit
bereng~Look
bereng~look
bereng~stare
bereng~look
berengi~take a look
berengi~look at it
berengi~but
berengi~look
berengon~view
berengon~view
berengon~stare
berengon~look
bernit~mourning
bernit~grieve
bernit~painful
bernit~stings
bernit~sad
bernit~It really hurts
bernit~difficult
bernitna~it hurts
bernitna~sad
bernitna~it's difficult
besang~malignant
besang~fierce
besbes~dodgy
besbes~Spry
besbes~agile
besteng~fortress
beta~Come on
beta~let
betak~perhaps
betak~who knows
betak~Possible
beteng~strong
beu~content
beu~crossbreed
beu~womb
beuk~immune
beuk~immune
biahaton~afraid
biang~dog
bianghu~my dog
biangna~his dog
biar~worried
biar~Afraid
biarna~afraid
bias~hate
bias~bored
bias~bored
bias~fed up
bias~fed up
biasbias~underestimated
biasbias~hatred
biasbias~boredom
biasbias~boredom
biasbias~saturation
bibel~Bible
bibel~gospel
bibi~duck
bibi~duck
bibi~mengkal
bibi~raw
bibir~lips
bibir~edge
bibir~edge
bibit~wise
bibit~wise
bibit~intelligent
bibit~perspicacious
bibit~plant buds
bidang~roomy
bidang~wide
bidang~loose
bidang~wide
bija~stab
bija~stab
bijak~wise
bijak~wise
bijak~dodgy
biji~seed
biji~item
bikbik~exfoliate
bikbik~torn
bil~free
bilang~count
bilangi~count
bile~despicable
bile~despicable dina
bile~small
bile~poor
bile~trivial
bile~low
bilhak~broken
bilhon~let go
bilolangon~Confused
bilolangon~nervous
bilolangon~nervous
bilolangon~flustered
bilolangon~wandering around
bilolangon~dazed
bilolangon~Afraid
bilut~room
bilut~room
binahen~made
binahen~do
binahenna~made
binanga~time
binanga~river
binatang~animal
binbinan~stack
bindu~chapter
bindu~couplet
bindu~chapter
bingkas~base
bingkas~because
bingkas~symptom
bingkas~reason
bingkas~because
bingkas~cause
bingkasna~basically
bingkasna~because of it
bingkasna~the symptoms
bingkasna~the cause
bingkasna~the cause
bingkasna~why
binoan~brought
binoan~I brought it
binoto~is known
binoto~I know
binoto~as far as I know
binsan~while
binsan~while
binsan~during
binsan~during
binsar~rise
binsat~install
bintang~star
bintang~victorious
bintoa~rainbow
birak~excited
birak~furious
birak~angry
biraon~presumptuous
birat~plump
birat~plump
bire~edge
bire~side
bire~edge
birong~black
birsak~splash
birsak~moncor
birsak~squirt
birsak~splash
birubiru~sheep
birubiru~sheep
bisa~Can
bisa~poison
bisana~usually
bisana~the poison
bisara~case
bistoha~rainbow
bistok~quick response
bistok~intelligent
bistok~smart
bistok~clever
bisuk~common sense
bisuk~wise
bisuk~wise
bisuk~intelligent
bisuk~dodgy
bisuk~smart
bisuk~clever
bitik~experience
bitik~ever experienced
bo~so
bo~astonished speech
boa~tell
boa~general
boaboa~announcement
boaboa~announcement
boadoma~how
boahon~let me know
boahon~announce
boan~transport
boan~bring
boan~boyong
boan~mutual
boanon~default
boanon~brought
boanonhu~mine
boanonhu~I brought it
boasa~Why
boasa~how come
boasa~Why
boasaa~Why
boasaa?~Why
boasaaa~Why
boasaaaa~Why
boasaaaaaaaa~Why
boasaaaaaaaa???~Why
boasado~why
boasama~why?
boasama?~why?
boasamada~why?
boban~burden
boban~load
boban~dependents
bobangon~stupid
bobangon~stupid
bobonosan~boredom
bobonosan~saturation
bobonosan~worries
bobonosan~boring
bobonosan~disturbing
bobonosan~drab
bobos~silent
bobos~mused
bobos~stunned
bodari~Evening
bodarina~at night
bodat~monkey
bodat~armpit
bodat~langur
bodat~introspective
bodat~monkey
bodat~orangutan
bodat~gibbon
boddar~ditch
bodil~rifle
bodil~gun
bodil~firearms
bogas~working result
bogas~connection
bogas~footsteps
bogas~Meaning
bogasna~relationship
bogasna~the trace
bogasna~It means
boha~What
boha~How
bohabohaon~undecided
bohabohaon~worry
bohabohaon~doubtful
bohal~provisions
bohal~living
bohang~wide
bohat~feel it
bohi~advance
bohi~punjar
bohi~appearance
bohi~down payment
bohi~face
bohihu~my face
bohihu~my appearance
bohihu~my face
bohim~your face
bohim~your appearance
bohim~your face
bohimi~your face
bohimi~your appearance
bohimi~your face
bohimu~your face
bohimu~your appearance
bohimu~your face
bohina~thereby
bohina~his face
bohina~apparently
bohina~his face
boho~Correct
boho~right
boho~satisfying
boho~pleasant
boho~exactly
boho~appropriate
boi~Can
boi~can
boi~Enough
boi~can
boi~capable
boi~capable
boihon~See, you can do it
boihon~allow
boihon~enough
boihon~able
boimaa~okay
bojak~frog
bojak~frog
bojok~Confused
bojok~frustration
bojok~gloomy
bojok~hopeless
bojol~fat
bojol~fat
bokhon~between
bokhon~bring
bokhon~give
bola~split
bola~ball
bola~broken
bolabola~cleavage
bolabola~cracked
bolabola~fraction
bolabola~flakes
bolahon~break it
bolak~field
bolak~roomy
bolak~wide
bolak~wide
bolang~striped
bolas~Can
bolas~can
bolas~carry on
bolas~until
bolas~capable
bolat~limit
bolat~separator
bolat~divider
bolbol~blunt
bolbol~worn
bolgang~boiled
boli~buy
boli~dowry
boli~dowry
bolis~devil
bolis~demon
bollang~wide-eyed
bollang~literate
bollang~glared
bollang~glare
bolo~if
bolo~If
bolo~if
bolon~great
bolon~grand
bolon~big
bolon~gadang
bolong~throw away
bolong~abandoned
bolsom~swollen
boltok~grain of rice
boltok~stomach
boluk~eel
boluk~protect
bolus~Then
bolus~past
bolus~cross
bolushon~go on
bolushon~miss it
bolusi~go through
bolusi~skip
bolusi~cross
bona~origin
bona~beginning
bona~stem
bona~start
bona~base
bona~tree
bona~principal
bona~source
bona~stump
bonai~start
bonana~origin
bonana~initially
bonana~the stem
bonana~at first
bonana~the base
bonana~the tree
bonana~the main thing is
bonana~the source
bonana~the stump
bonang~thread
bonar~fair
bonar~Correct
bonar~Honest
bonar~Spirit
bonar~sincere
bonarna~fair
bonarna~that's right
bonarna~honestly
bonarna~his enthusiasm
bonarna~sincerely
bonda~genitals
bonda~property
bonda~possession
bonda~owned by
bondana~his property
bondana~his
bondana~his
bondar~darling
bondar~got
bondar~ditch
bondar~waterways
bondar~drain
bondar~water rope
bondut~swallow
boneka~doll
bongak~great
bongak~Cool
bongak~elegant
bongak~handsome
bongal~famous
bongbong~limit
bongbong~fence
bonggal~big bodied
bonggal~authority
bonggang~strong
bonggur~warm
bonggur~hot
bongka~object
bongka~matter
bongkak~swollen
bongkar~demolish
bongkot~accepted
bongkot~enter
bongkung~snare
bongkung~stirrup
bongot~silent
bongot~enter
bongot~stay
boni~seed
boni~seeds
bonjor~stop by
bonok~sad
bonok~sad
bonom~immerse
bonom~sink
bonor~Correct
bonor~be kind
bonor~be open minded
bonor~Honest
bonor~sincere
bonorna~honestly
bonorna~sincerely
bonos~bored
bonos~sorrow
bonos~nervous
bonos~bored
bonos~fed up
bonos~worry
bonosan~mourn
bonosan~boredom
bonosan~anxiety
bonosan~boredom
bonosan~saturation
bonosan~worries
bonsa~sad
bonsa~gloomy
bonsa~sad
bonsingbonsing~whip
bonsingbonsing~whip
bonsir~because
bonsir~cause
bonsir~because
bonsirna~because of it
bonsirna~the reason
bonsirna~why
bonsot~fat
bonsot~fat
bontar~blood
bontar~white
bontarna~his blood
bontean~dock
bontean~harbor
bontis~deft
bontis~strong
bontis~ligate
bontis~agile
bonton~heavy
bontor~sincere
bontor~Honest
bontor~believe
bontor~sincere
boras~rice
boras~fruit
borasna~the fruit
boraspati~house lizard
boraspati~fifth day
borat~heavy
borbar~chaotic
borbar~complicated
borgo~cold
borgo~fresh
borgo~cool
borgoborgoan~cool off
borgoborgoan~freezing
borgoon~freezing
borgoon~freshness
borgoon~coolness
borgot~snare
borgot~trap
borhat~leave
borhat~leave
borhat?~leave
borhatborhat~celebration event
borhatborhat~provisions
borhatborhat~gratitude
borhathon~leave
borhatma~go
borhatt~leave
borhattt~leave
bori~worry
borit~hurts
borit~painful
borit~Sick
boritan~pain
boritan~aching
borjongon~sick
borna~the drill
borna~beautiful
borna~color
borngin~Evening
borngin?~Evening
borngindo~at night
bornginn~Evening
bornginna~at night
bornginnn~Evening
bornok~wet
bornok~wash
bornok~watery
bornok~puddle
bornok~damp
bornok~moisture
bornok~swamps
borontak~rebel
borot~agun
borot~pawn
borot~tie
borot~guarantee
borot~snare
borot~mooring
borotan~collateral
borotan~guarantee
borotan~mooring
boroti~beam
borsang~dregs
borsang~sepah
borsi~alcohol
borsi~liquor
borta~sugar palm
borta~enau
bortian~content
bortian~crossbreed
bortian~womb
boru~girl
boru~girl
boru~daughter
boru~woman
borua~girl
borua~girl
borua~daughter
boruboru~female
boruboru~girl
boruboru~virgin
boruboru~girl
boruboru~young woman
boruboru~Woman
boruboru~daughter
boruboru~woman
borum~your daughter
borum~your daughter
borumi~your daughter
borumi~your daughter
borumu~your daughter
borumu~your daughter
boruna~his daughter
boruna~his daughter
borur~swallow
bosar~big
bosi~steel
bosi~iron
bosol~swollen
bosol~boil
bostang~gloomy
bostang~on your back
bosur~full
bota~dregs
botak~bald
botak~bare
botang~strong
botang~stocky
botang~strapping
botari~evening
botari~late afternoon
botari~afternoon
boti~like this
boti~so
boti~thereby
botik~betik
botik~papaya
botik~pawpaw
boto~know
botohon~arm
botohon~hand
botul~Correct
botul~right
botulbotul~truly
botulbotul~truly
botulbotul~true, true
botulna~that's right
botulna~that's right
buangga~too
buangga~too
buas~wild
buas~philanthrope
buas~fierce
buas~malignant
buas~wild
buas~generous
buas~royal
buat~take
buat~make
buati~just take it
buati~take it
buati~reduce
bubus~collapse
bubus~leaking
bubus~royal
budak~slave
budak~child
budingkil~swollen
budingkil~lump
bue~Lots
buea~crocodile
buena~many
bugang~wound
buha~open
buhahon~open it
buhai~start
buhai~start
buhu~book
buhu~segment
buhul~Certain
buhul~agreed
buhul~determine
buhulhon~make sure
buhulhon~agree
buhuli~agree
buktihon~prove it
buktina~the proof
buku~book
buku~book
buku~References
bula~order
bulan~month
bulbulan~gathering
bulet~Lots
bulet~round
bulhap~broken-down
buligan~line
buligan~row
bulu~aur
bulu~bamboo
bulu~hair
bulu~reed
bulung~leaf
bulungbulung~leaves
bulungbulung~foliage
bulungna~the leaves
bulus~Good
bulus~plain
bulus~simple
bulusan~good
bulusan~better
bulusan~blanket
bulut~tangled
bumbu~spice
bumi~earth
bumi~land
bunbun~collect
bunbun~gather
bunbun~pile it up
bunbun~stack
bunbunan~set
bunbunan~gathering
bunbunan~heap
bunbunan~stack
bundat~slow
bundat~slow
bung~dude
bunga~flower
bunga~flower
bunga~rose
bunga~rent
bunga~rent
bungaran~cheerful
bungaran~cheerful
bungaran~lively
bungbung~open
bungbung~roofless
bungbung~not walled
bunggaling~on your back
bungka~open
bungka~croak
bungkas~run away
bungkas~move
bungkas~move quietly
bungkuk~hunchback
buni~hide
buntak~mud
buntak~swamps
buntul~lump
buntul~title
bunu~kill
bura~curse
bura~damned
bura~curse
bura~cursing
burabura~scorn
burabura~insult
burabura~curse
burabura~curse
burai~scorn
burai~cursing
burak~shame
burak~foam
burak~reproach
burak~in front of
burak~bubble
burangir~betel
burbar~messy
burbar~untidy
burbar~noisy
burbar~boisterous
burbar~damaged
burbur~weathered
burbur~termite
buri~wash
buriapus~dead
burju~Good
burju~Honest
burju~diligent
burju~pious
burju~sincere
burju!~Good
burju?~Good
burju??~Good
burju???~Good
burjudo~good
burjudoh~good
burjuhon~doing good
burjuhon~be honest
burjuhon~be diligent
burjuhon~be sincere
burjulah~Okay
burjum~your good
burjuma~Okay
burjumu~your good
burjuna~good
burjuna?~good
burjuni~kind
burjuu~Good
burjuuu~Good
burjuuu2~Good
burjuuuu~Good
burjuuuuu~Good
burlak~drive away
burnang~roomy
burnang~wide
buro~drive away
bursak~splash
bursik~spit
bursik~blurted out
bursik~spray
burta~evict
burta~drive away
buru~hurry
buruk~used
buruk~bad
buruk~old
buruk~Bad
buruk~expired
buruk~ancient
buruk~tattered
buruk~worn
busbus~crazy
busbus~quick
busbus~quick
busisa~nervous
busisa~angry
busisa~restless
bustak~mud
busuk~rotten
butir~reluctant
butir~disinclined
butong~full
butongan~full
butuha~stomach
butuha~stomach
butuha~intestines
ceshu~my friend
dabodabo~that's it
dabu~fall
dabudabuan~budget
dabudabuan~calculation
dada~bye
dadang~heat
dadap~stupid
dadap~search
dadap~touch
dadap~rooh
dae~bad
dae~Bad
dae~abstinence
dae~not good
daga~Ouch
daga~Good grief
daga~oh
daga~Wow
daga~wow
dagang~foreigners
dagang~comer
dagang~nomad
daging~body
daging~body
daginghi~my body
daginghi~my body
daginghu~my body
daginghu~my body
dagingmi~your body
dagingmi~your body
dagingmu~your body
dagingmu~your body
dagingna~his body
dagingna~his body
dago~Good grief
dagoi~Ouch
dahahang~my brother
dahahang~my brother
dahahang~my brother
dahanon~rice
dahi~climb
daho~accused
daho~accused
dahop~hug
dahop~hug
dahop~embrace
dahopan~cuddle
dahopan~hug
dahopan~embrace
dahopanmu~your hug
dahopanmu~your hug
dahopanmu~your embrace
dai~willing
dai~ready
dai~getting ready
dai~taste it
dai~flavor
dai~taste it
dai~standby
dai~ready
dai~it's ready
daik~take a clothesline
daik~collect
daina~the taste
daina~it feels like
dainang~Mother
dainang~my mom
dainang~mother
dainang~Mama
dainangi~my mom
dainong~mother
dais~congregate
dais~hit
dais~rub
dais~touch
daisdais~paintbrush
dajal~Badung
dajal~bandal
dajal~wayward
dajal~Hooligan
dajal~naughty
dakdanak~child
dakdanak~small child
dakdanak~children
dakdanak~kid
dalan~method
dalan~road
dalanan~street
dalanhi~my way
dalanhu~my way
dalanhu~my way
dalani~live it
dalaniba~my way
dalanin~live it
dalanmi~your way
dalanmu~your way
dalanmu~your way
dalanna~The method
dalanna~the way
daldal~sour
daldal~a kind of bee
daldal~gloomy
dalhop~tightly
dalhop~sticky
dalhop~paste
dali~milk
dalian~reason
dalian~pretext
dalianna~the reason
dalianna~his excuse
dalihan~institution
dalihan~organization
dalihan~furnace
dalmet~mushy
dalmet~gentle
dalmet~soft
dalom~in
dalomna~inside
damang~Father
damang~father
damang~son
damanghu~my father
damanghu~my father
damangmu~your father
damangmu~your father
damangna~his father
damangna~his father
damar~resin
dame~get along
dame~safe
dame~peace
dame~get along well
dame~calm
dame~peaceful
damo~fine
damo~tunable
damor~soft
damor~mushy
damor~gentle
damor~soft
damos~damping
damos~near
dampol~massage
dampol~sort
dampor~nice
dampor~healed
damul~Embarrassed
dan~fungus
dan~mold
danak~young
danak~childish
danak~young
danak~naive
danakna~his youth
danakna~young
danakna~naive
danbirbir~fungus
danbirbir~mold
dandan~intertwine
dandan~braid
dandan~pigtail
dang~Not yet
dang~not
dang~No
dangadanga~fleas
dangadanga~tuma
dangar~arid
dangdut~dangdut
danggol~warm
danggol~hot
danggol~lukewarm
danggolna~its warm
danggolna~it's hot
danggolna~her husband
danggur~throw
danggur~eject
danggur~Sambit
danggur~beat it
dangiang~haughty
dangiang~arrogant
dangiang~proud
dangir~bitter
dangir~destitute
dangir~miserable
dangir~difficult
dangirna~bitterly
dangirna~destitute
dangirna~it's miserable
dangirna~it's difficult
dangis~Unlucky
dangka~branch
dangka~branches
dangka~twig
dangkana~the branch
dangkana~the branches
dangkana~the twig
dangol~destitute
dangol~sad
dangol~miserable
dangsina~south
daniel~Daniel
danpohul~fungus
dao~Far
daohon~keep away
daoldaolon~weak
daoldaolon~pale
daompung~great-grandfather
daompung~grandparent
daompung~grandparents
daompung~ancestors
daon~drug
daona~far away
daong~Not yet
daong~No
daong~not
daong~unwilling
daong~not
daong~No
daong!~No
daong!!~No
daong?~No
daong?!~No
daong??~No
daong????~No
daongma~no
daongna~instead
dapot~achieved
dapot~can
dapot~see you
dapot~meet
dapot~meeting
dapot~invitation
dapotan~get
dapotan~earnings
dapotan~goto
dapotan~splashed
dapotan~get
dapotan~lucky
dapotho~you can
dapotho!~you can
dapothon~get it
dapothon~come
dapothon~ahead
dapothon~meet
dapothon~see you
dapothon~meet
dapothon~find
dapotmu~you can
dapotmu~see you
dapotna~achieve it
dapotna~got it
dapotna~see you
dapotna~meet him
dapotna~meeting
dapotsa~got it
dapotsa~see you
dapur~kitchen
darahna~his blood
daram~living
daram~income
darana~his blood
darang~scabies
darapati~pigeon
darapati~dove
darat~field
darat~land
darat~moorland
dare~Ready
dari~pity
dari~pity
dari~sad
darina~his pity
darina~pity
darina~sadly
darngaon~thirsty
daro~blood
darodaro~blood
darodaro~period
darom~your blood
daromu~your blood
darona~his blood
das~until
das~arrive
dasardasar~shell
dasardasar~skull
dasardasar~shell
dasardasar~cranium
dasardasar~skull
dasdas~recommended
dasdas~tell me
dasi~tie
dasing~weigh
dasing~measuring
dasingan~scales
dasingan~size
dasip~patent
dasip~save
dasip~arrange
dasip~system
dasip~orderly
dasna~arrived
dasna~arrived
dasor~base
datdat~often
datdat~often
datdat~repeat
datdati~small talk
datdati~repeat
date~achieved
date~tired
date~tired
date~tired
datek~perhaps
datek~could be
datek~Possible
datena~achieve it
datena~he's tired
datena~tired
datena~tired
datu~sorcerer
datu~witch doctor
datu~handler
datu~magician
datulang~uncle
datulangna~his uncle
dauk~mushy
dauk~gentle
dauk~flexible
dauk~soft
daul~more
daulat~pious
daulat~kind
daulat~good fortune
daulat~pious
daulat~polite
daulat~loyal
daulat~polite
daunang~don't
daunang~yeah don't
daupa~incense
daupa~incense
deak~Lots
deakna~many
deang~court lady
deang~girl
deba~part
deba~half
debata~Allah
debata~Lord
debata~Allah
debata!na~his god
debatado~his god
debatahu~my god
debatahu~my god my god
debatahu~my god
debatam~your god
debatam~god your god
debatam~your god
debatamu~your god
debatamu~god your god
debatamu~your god
debatana~his god
debatana~god his god
debatana~his god
debatani~his god
debatanya~his god
deder~destroyed
dege~step on
dege~step on
dekdek~fall
delmek~comfortable
demak~peace
demak~peaceful
dembal~o'clock
dembalan~curse
demban~betel
demi~sake
dempar~heretical
denggal~curved
denggal~upright
denggal~tense
denggan~Good
denggan~Good
denggan~beautiful
denggan~established
denggan~Okay
denggan~get along well
denggan!!~Good
dengganna~that's good
dengganna~good
dengganna~nice
dengganna~established
dengganna~okay
dengganna~harmonious
dengkar~prevent
dengkar~dodge
dengkar~martial arts
dengkar~parry
dengke~fish
dengke?~fish
dengkena~the fish
dengkut~bent
derem~silent
derem~asleep
derem~restful
derem~sound asleep
derem~calm
derngas~God damn it
derngas~naughty
detak~perhaps
detak~who knows
detak~Possible
detik~second
deua~god
di~in
di~to
di~on
di~For
dia~What
dia~where
dia~ask for
dia~Which one
diabithon~worn
diabithon~pinned
diabuk~rushed
diabuk~urged
diabuk~forced to
diadopan~in front of
diadu~chased
diadu~contested
diadu~followed
diadu~chased
diae~suffered
diae~felt
diaehon~felt
diago~fooled
diago~sold
diago~troubled
diago~cheated
diahap~experienced
diahap~felt
diahaphon~felt
diahut~taken
diahut~stolen
diahut~scooped up
diain~adopted
diain~lifted
diain~made
diaithon~linked
diaithon~withdrawn
diajari~taught
diajari~advised
diajari~advised
dialap~picked up
dialapi~picked up
dialgip~swallowed
diallang~eaten
dialo~resisted
dialo~antagonized
dialo~challenged
dialuhon~complained
dialuhon~given out
dialuhon~reported
dialusi~answered
dialusi~answered
diam~stop
diam~silent
diam~calm
diam~shut up
diambat~prevented
diambat~intercepted
diambat~blocked
diambat~inhibited
diambat~detained
diampehon~placed
diampu~answered
diampu~welcomed
diandehon~submitted
dianggapi~guarded
dianggapi~accompanied
dianggapi~waiting
dianggarhon~reliable
dianggarhon~proud of
dianggo~sniffed
diangkali~tricked
diangkali~cheated
diangkip~devoured
dianjak~stepped on
dianju~caressed
dianju~forgiven
dianju~understandable
dianjurhon~recommended
diantuk~hit
dianturehon~ignored
dianturehon~cared about
dianturehon~noticed
diantushon~explained
diantusi~understandable
diantusi~understandable
diantusi~understood
diapas~slandered
diapas~insulted
diapas~distaste
diapoi~persuaded
diapoi~entertained
diapoi~advised
diapoi~advised
diapoi~reprimanded
diapuli~caressed
diapuli~entertained
diar~let
diaraphon~expected
diarbishon~connected
diarbishon~linked
diarbishon~alluded to
diargahon~valued
diarhon~let
diarihon~owned
diarin~leave it alone
diarophon~expected
diartihon~interpreted
diartihon~used
diartihon~utilized
diasanghon~reliable
diasanghon~proud of
diasanghon~expected
diasangi~resisted
diasangi~challenged
diauhon~keep it in mind
diauhon~Approved
dibadai~scolded
dibagabagahon~expected
dibagabagahon~promised
dibagas~in the
dibagas?~in the
dibagi~shared
dibagi~given
dibahen~contrived
dibahen~made
dibahen~because
dibahen~done
dibahen~caused
dibalbal~slammed
dibalbal~hit
dibalbal~slapped
dibalbal~slapped
dibalbali~beaten
dibalbali~slapped
dibalginghon~let down
dibalikhon~reversed
dibalikhon~blown away
dibalikhon~dropped
dibalonghon~thrown away
dibalos~replied
diban~exiled
diban~punished
diban~fired
dibandit~pickpocketed
dibandit~stolen
dibapbap~beaten
dibapbap~tortured
dibaritahon~reported
dibaritahon~reported
dibaritahon~broadcast
dibarukbak~destroyed
dibasbas~hit
dibasbas~got hit
dibasu~cleaned
dibasu~washed
dibaurbaurhon~launched
dibege~heard
diberangna~he saw
dibereng~seen
dibereng~seen
dibereng~stared at
dibereng~looked at
diberengi~seen
diberengi~looked at
diberengi~noticed
diberengi~looked at
dibetabeta~invited
dibilangi~calculated
diboan~transported
diboan~brought
diboan~carried off
diboan~stolen
diboan~carried
diboihon~can
diboihon~allowed
diboihon~enabled
dibokhon~brought
dibolonghon~thrown away
dibolus~flowed
dibolus~passed
dibolus~skipped
dibolus~crossed
dibolushon~missed
dibonarhon~justified
dibondut~swallowed
dibongoti~inhabited
dibongoti~inhabited
dibongoti~entered
dibongoti~lived in
diborgat~revoked
diborur~swallowed
diboto~is known
dibuat~taken
dibuat~contrived
dibuat~annexed
dibuat~confiscated
dibuha~opened
dibuha~started
dibuha~dated
dibuha~revealed
dibuhul~agreed
dibuhul~determined
dibuhuli~agreed
dibuhuli~determined
dibungka~opened
diburai~cursed
diburai~cursed
diburai~sworn
diburi~cleaned
diburi~washed
diburlak~expelled
diburta~evicted
diburta~expelled
dibutbut~revoked
didabuhon~dropped
didadalani~carried out
didadang~dried in the sun
didadang~heated
didadap~searching for
didadap~touched
didadap~reached into
didahan~cooked
didahop~embraced
didahop~hugged
didai~tasted
didai~enjoyed
didai~felt
didai~felt
didaihon~felt
didalanhon~practiced
didalanhon~executed
didalani~carried out
didalani~taken
didalanin~carried out
didandan~braided
didandan~braided
didandan~pigtailed
didapot~achieved
didapot~obtained
didapot~obtained
didapot~found
didasdas~recommended
didasdas~ordered
didekdekhon~dropped
didembal~hit
dideng~song
didi~baptism
didi~bathe
didi~bathe
didia~Where
didiaon~Confused
didiaon~searching
dididi~baptized
dididi~bathed
didiori~searching for
didiori~tracked
didohoti~attended
didohoti~followed
didohoti~obeyed
didoit~bitten
didoit~stung
didok~said
didokhon~discussed
didokhon~said
didokhon~said
didokhon~recommended
didokhon~called
didokhon~be spoken
didoltuk~beaten
didoltuk~printed
didoltuk~knocked
didoltuk~hit
didongangi~accompanied
didongani~accompanied
didongani~accompanied
didongani~accompanied
didongani~accompanied
didonganon~accompanied
didonokhon~brought closer
didopang~faced
didopang~fought
didopang~detained
didophon~considered
didophon~felt
didor~skinny
didulo~visited
didulo~visited
didulo~visited
didulo~visited
didulo~visited
didulo~dilayat
didulo~looked at
didulo~reviewed
didungdung~achieved
didungdung~reached
didungdung~reachable
didungdung~achieved
didungketi~done
didungkoti~done
didungo~built
didusdus~urged
didusdus~pushed
didusdus~motivated
dieak~chased
dieak~followed
dieaki~chased
dieaki~followed
diedangi~carried out
diensenghon~proud of
dieret~shifted
dietong~calculated
dietong~totaled
dietong~estimated
digabehon~Approved
digabusi~lied to
digabusi~cheated
digabusi~lied to
digadis~for sale
digagat~eaten
digainghon~hanged
digainghon~implicated
digalege~damaged
digana~formed
digana~created
digana~forged
digana~carved
digantunghon~hanged
digapgapi~lied to
digapgapi~lied to
digarar~paid
digarar~deposited
digasak~accelerated
digete~shredded
digete~torn apart
digete~torn
digete~torn
diginjang~on
digoari~named
digogo~forced to
digokhon~invited
digomgomi~protected
digomgomi~protected
digopu~destroyed
digopu~crushed
digora~called
digosa~persecuted
digosa~beaten
digosa~hit
digosa~hurted
digosa~tortured
digotap~cut
digotap~disconnected
digotil~pinched
digotil~chopped off
digotil~jewered
digotil~harvested
digotil~reaped
digunahon~functioned
digunahon~used
digunahon~utilized
digurdak~expelled
diha~what are you
dihabanghon~flown
dihabiarhon~worried
dihabiarhon~scared
dihabiari~feared
dihaburjuhon~done
dihaburjuhon~serious
dihadangolhon~executed
dihadangolhon~felt
dihadangolhon~detained
dihadiha~descendants
dihagolapan~in the dark
dihaholomon~in the dark
dihaholongi~loved
dihaholongi~loved
dihaholongi~loved
dihali~dug
diham~what are you
dihamsarhon~launched
dihana~What
dihandit~lifted
dihandit~carried off
dihangoluhon~held
dihangoluhon~grown
dihansiti~injured
dihansiti~hurted
dihaol~embraced
dihaol~hugged
dihaol~embraced
dihaporluhon~needed
dihaporluhon~required
dihaporluhon~takes priority
dihaporseai~believed
dihaporseai~trusted
dihaporseai~believed
dihara~invited
dihara~invited
diharangan~in the forest
diharat~bitten
diharingkothon~important
diharingkothon~takes priority
dihasiani~loved
dihasiani~loved
dihasiani~loved
dihasomalhon~get used to
dihatahon~discussed
dihatahon~said
dihatahon~confirmed
dihatahon~said
dihatahon~said
dihatahon~discussed
dihatahon~be spoken
dihatai~discussed
dihatai~said
dihatindanghon~explained
dihatindanghon~witnessed
dihatindanghon~explained
dihidia~Where
dihilala~felt
dihilala~felt
dihilalahon~felt
dihindat~lifted
dihipuhipu~accelerated
dihirimhon~expected
dihojot~speed up
dihojot~accelerated
diholangholang~between
dihomat~closed
dihombari~approached
dihorus~taken
dihorus~spent
dihosing~reversed
dihosing~shifted
dihuar~dismantled
dihuar~dug
dihuar~scraped
dihudus~urged
dihudus~accelerated
dihurak~dug
dihusor~shifted
dihuta~in village
dihuta?????~in village
diida~seen
diida~stared at
diida~looked at
diihuthon~included
diihuthon~accompanied
diihuthon~emulated
diingani~inhabited
diingani~inhabited
diingani~occupied
diingot~imagined
diingot~remembered
diingot~remembered
diingothon~reminded
diinona~felt
diinum~drunk
diiring~guided
diiring~led
diiringi~guided
diiringi~led
diisinhon~allowed
dijabu~At home
dijabu~connection
dijabu~friendship
dijabu~unity
dijabu~brotherhood
dijabu~friendship
dijabu~kinship
dijabukku~At home
dijabum~in your home
dijabumu~in your home
dijadihon~made
dijaha~be read
dijakhon~adopted
dijakhon~accepted
dijaljal~chopped
dijaljal~slaughtered
dijaljal~chopped
dijaljal~slaughtered
dijalo~requested
dijalo~billed
dijalo~accepted
dijama~touched
dijama~held
dijama~touched
dijangkon~recognized
dijangkon~welcomed
dijangkon~collected
dijangkon~accepted
dijanji~determined
dijapjap~devoured
dijomur~dried in the sun
dijongkal~insulted
dijongkal~stifled
dijonoki~approached
dijonoki~pinched
dijou~called
dijua~avoided
dijua~rejected
dijujui~directed
dijujui~ordered
dijumadihon~made
dikarejohon~done
dikeker~targeted
dikeker~is peeked
dikeker~seen
dila~tongue
dila~taster
dilala~destroyed
dilala~melted down
dilalai~destroyed
dilalai~melted down
dilaluhon~missed
dilam~your tongue
dilambung~near
dilambungmi~near you
dilambungmu~near you
dilamuk~blended
dilamuk~mixed
dilamuk~formulated
dilangkopi~closed
dilangkopi~covered
dilanja~brought
dilanja~carried off
dilanja~carried
dilaok~mixed
dilaoshon~ignored
dilaoshon~missed
dilapathon~empowered
dilapathon~used
dilapati~interpreted
dilapati~defined
dilapati~cared about
dilapati~interpreted
dilaphon~abolished
dilaphon~reported
dilaphon~rubbed
dilaplap~finished off
dilaplap~hit
dilaplap~devoured
dilat~lick
dileai~slandered
dileai~insulted
dileai~blasphemed
dileai~cursed
dileai~distaste
dilean~given
dilean~given
dilehon~given
dilehon~given
dilehon~given
dilehon~submitted
dilehonsa~gave him
dilele~chased
dilele~expelled
dilete~chased
dilete~expelled
dilibas~hit
diliga~separated
diloas~left
diloas~allowed
diloas~allowed
dilojong~chased
dilojong~followed
dilojong~chased
dilombut~whipped
dilombut~hit
dilombuti~beaten
dilompa~cooked
dilonjan~beaten
dilonjan~hit
dilonjan~stepped on
dilonjan~hit
dilopeng~beaten
dilopeng~hit
dilopengi~beaten
diloplophon~entered
dilopokhon~sown
dilopokhon~takes priority
dilotak~sleepy
dilotak~knocked
dilotak~hit
dilotlot~stepped on
dilotlot~stepped on
dilului~searching for
dilului~tracked
dilumba~chased
dilumba~followed
dilumba~chased
dilusaki~cleaned
dimaaphon~forgiven
dimangan~eaten
dimasuki~entered
dimatehon~turn off
dimpos~neat
dimpos~neat
dimpos~regular
dimpos~orderly
dimpos~closed
dimpu~gather
dimpuan~gathering
dimpuhon~collect
dimuruki~scolded
dinaholom~in the dark
dinamarsirang~farewell
dinapatur~repaired
dingatngat~bitten
dingding~wall
dingkal~upright
dingkal~tense
dingkan~direction
dingkan~cheating
dingkan~Where
dingkan~approximately
dingkan~party
dingkan~play favor
dingkan~adjacent
dingkan~unfair
dingkir~search
dingoluhu~in my life
dingoluki~in my life
dingolum~in your life
dingolumi~in your life
dingolumu~in your life
dingoluna~in his life
dinonangi~chatted about
dinonangi~discussed
diolgap~swallowed
diolohon~agreed
diolohon~obeyed
diolohon~confirmed
dioloi~desired
dioloi~Approved
dioloi~confirmed
diolophon~supported
diolophon~accepted
diolopi~Approved
diombus~exhaled
diombus~blown
diompashon~blown away
diompashon~dropped
diondihon~protected
diondihon~protected
diongkal~dug
dionjar~pushed
dionjar~pushed
diontang~invited
diopan~blown
dior~search
diora~forbidden
diorai~forbidden
diorai~scolded
diorai~scolded
diordior~looking around
diordior~searching
diordior~looking around
diori~search
diori~track
diose~denied
diose~changed
diosikhon~disturbed
diosikhon~expelled
diotan~held
diotan~carried
diotoi~fooled
diotoi~cheated
dipaasing~differentiated
dipaasing~otherwise
dipaasing~separated
dipabagak~decorated
dipabagak~improved
dipabagak~repaired
dipabagak~beautified
dipabagak~beautified
dipabagak~polished
dipaberengbereng~left
dipaboa~notified
dipaboa~reported
dipaboahon~notified
dipaboahon~reported
dipabontis~strengthened
dipabotohon~notified
dipabotohon~notified
dipabuni~hidden
dipabuni~saved
dipadalan~circulated
dipadalan~held
dipadalan~done
dipadao~avoided
dipadao~kept away
dipadenggan~repaired
dipadoras~accelerated
dipaeret~shifted
dipaeret~moved
dipagira~accelerated
dipagogo~hardened
dipagogo~strengthened
dipagogo~screened
dipagopas~strengthened
dipahabang~flown
dipahabis~spent
dipahabis~resolved
dipahabis~completed
dipaharcit~hurted
dipahatop~carried on
dipahatop~accelerated
dipahatop~plugged in
dipahe~used
dipahinsa~accelerated
dipahoding~privileged
dipahoding~specialized
dipahoding~takes priority
dipahojot~accelerated
dipaian~saved
dipaianhon~saved
dipaianhon~placed
dipaias~cleaned
dipaias~reported
dipaias~brushed
dipaida~left
dipail~called
dipaila~humiliated
dipaingot~reminded
dipaingot~advised
dipaingot~advised
dipaingothon~reminded
dipajadihon~made
dipajagar~valued
dipajagar~respected
dipajalhon~plugged in
dipajalhon~plugged in
dipajojor~lined up
dipajojor~lined up
dipajojor~aligned
dipajojor~explained
dipajojor~sorted
dipajolo~reliable
dipajolo~comes first
dipajolo~advanced
dipajolo~favored
dipajolo~takes priority
dipajongjong~established
dipajongjong~established
dipajonok~brought closer
dipakke~used
dipalaho~expelled
dipalakku~sold
dipalakku~done
dipalang~inhibited
dipalang~detained
dipalao~evicted
dipalao~driven away
dipalao~expelled
dipale~beaten
dipale~beaten
dipalea~insulted
dipalengket~repaired
dipalese~paid off
dipalese~resolved
dipallean~given
dipaloas~left
dipaloas~allowed
dipaloas~allowed
dipaloas~welcome
dipamanat~observed
dipamanat~noticed
dipamasuk~entered
dipamate~killed
dipamate~turn off
dipaminar~enlightened
dipaminar~cheered up
dipangarantoan~overseas
dipangasahon~proud of
dipanggainghon~hanged
dipanggar~praised
dipangido~requested
dipangido~billed
dipangke~used
dipantaridahon~shown
dipantikhon~plugged in
dipantikhon~plugged in
dipaolooloi~obeyed
dipaorot~shifted
dipaotooto~fooled
dipaotooto~cheated
dipapatar~explained
dipapatar~explained
dipapeakpeak~lying around
dipapeakpeak~Rest
dipapilit~operated on
dipapilit~separated
dipapulik~differentiated
dipapulik~separated
diparade~served
diparade~served
diparade~served
diparade~provided
diparade~prepared
diparalangalangan~overseas
diparalangalangan~unclear
diparar~valued
diparateatehon~monitored
diparateatehon~noticed
diparateatehon~listen
diparbadiai~sanctified
diparbadiai~glorified
diparbadiai~purified
diparbaga~coveted
diparbaga~expected
dipardaginghon~suitable
dipardaginghon~ingrained
dipardaginghon~in accordance
dipardongan~accompanied
dipardongan~accompanied
dipardulihon~cared about
dipareso~studied
dipareso~corrected
dipareso~checked
dipareso~investigated
dipargogoi~strengthened
diparhambol~valued
diparhasangapan~overseas
diparhasomal~get used to
diparhatai~discussed
diparhatoban~enslaved
diparhatoban~enslaved
diparhatopot~accelerated
diparhatutu~recognized
diparhatutu~trusted
diparhatutu~believed
diparjalangan~overseas
diparmudar~get used to
diparmudar~carried out
diparngoluon~in life
diparoaroa~slandered
diparoaroa~demonized
diparorot~taken care of
diparorot~treated
diparrohahon~noticed
diparrohahon~listen
diparsahat~be delivered
diparsangapi~respected
diparsangapi~glorified
diparsikkolahon~schooled
diparsikkolai~schooled
diparsikkolaon~schooled
diparsinta~aspired to
diparsinta~expected
diparsinta~desired
diparsinta~requested
dipasae~resolved
dipasahat~be delivered
dipasak~hit
dipasangap~exalted
dipasangap~valued
dipasangap~respected
dipasangap~glorified
dipasaut~validated
dipasaut~made
dipasaut~married
dipasaut~married
dipasiat~understandable
dipasiat~fulfilled
dipasiding~avoided
dipasiding~avoided
dipasiding~separated
dipasiding~set aside
dipasidung~completed
dipasidung~resolved
dipasigop~accelerated
dipasikkolahon~schooled
dipasintong~justified
dipasintong~corrected
dipasolhot~familiarized
dipasolhot~brought closer
dipasomal~get used to
dipasombu~left
dipasombu~abandoned
dipasondot~resolved
dipasuhar~reversed
dipasuhar~changed
dipasuman~matched
dipasuman~imitated
dipasupasu~awarded
dipasupasu~blessed
dipasupasu~blessed
dipasupasuhon~awarded
dipasupasuhon~blessed
dipasupasuhon~given
dipatalu~defeated
dipatama~respected
dipatama~feasible
dipatama~appropriate
dipatarida~shown
dipataridahon~shown
dipataridahon~shown
dipataridahon~is displayed
dipataridaon~shown
dipateatea~lifted
dipateatea~held
dipateda~explained
dipateda~exhibited
dipateda~showed
dipatibu~accelerated
dipatindang~established
dipatingkos~improved
dipatingkos~justified
dipatingkos~corrected
dipatiur~enlightened
dipatiur~explained
dipatolhas~be delivered
dipatorang~explained
dipatoru~humbled
dipatudu~stated
dipatudu~shown
dipatudu~showed
dipatumpol~explained
dipatumpol~confronted
dipatupa~contrived
dipatupa~served
dipatupa~provided
dipatupahon~provided
dipatupaon~provided
dipature~arranged
dipature~justified
dipature~corrected
dipature~repaired
dipature~corrected
dipauba~changed
dipauli~built
dipauli~repaired
dipauli~saved
dipauneune~repaired
dipauneune~customized
dipaurak~humiliated
dipeakhon~laid down
dipeakhon~placed
dipeakhon~put
dipikkiran~in mind
dipikkiran~in mind
dipillit~chosen
dipinjilhon~exiled
dipinsang~advised
dipinsang~advised
dipinsang~reprimanded
dipinta~requested
dipodai~advised
dipodai~advised
dipogo~cheated
dipogo~detained
dipollat~stepped on
dipollat~stepped on
diponggol~cut
dipudi~behind
dipudian~behind
dipuji~praised
dipungka~started
dipungka~started
dipungkul~hit
dipunsu~at the end
dipupus~guided
dipurpur~separated
diputput~revoked
diradoti~supervised
diradoti~guarded
diradoti~maintained
diradoti~treated
dirajai~protected
dirajai~carried
dirajai~protected
dirajumi~recognized
dirajumi~considered
dirajumi~pondered
diramoti~taken care of
diramoti~supervised
diramoti~guarded
diramoti~protected
diranap~seen
diranap~pondered
diranapi~responded
dirangguthon~wrestled
dirangguthon~hugged
dirapothon~discussed
dirapothon~closed
dirapothon~negotiated
dirgak~upright
diri~body
diri~self
diri~personal
diri~body
diribak~torn apart
diribak~torn
diribak~torn
dirigat~torn
dirihu~myself
dirihu~myself
dirihu~my personal
dirihu~I myself
dirihu~my body
dirim~yourself
dirim~yourself
dirim~your personal
dirimba~done
dirimpu~allegedly
dirimpu~thought
dirimpu~suspected
dirimu~your body
dirimu~yourself
dirimu~your personal
dirina~his body
dirina~himself
dirina~personal
diririt~proposed
diririt~chosen
diririt~proposed
diroha~in the heart
diroha~in mind
diroha~felt
dirohahon~practiced
dirohahon~monitored
dirohahon~noticed
dirohahon~thought
dirohahon~care
diromahi~in your heart
dironsot~forced to
diropanghon~destroyed
diropanghon~threshed
diruar~outside
dirungganghon~dropped
dirurus~aborted
dirurus~dropped
dirurus~threshed
dirutrut~revoked
disahaphon~sealed
disahaphon~crowned
disahaphon~submitted
disalamathon~saved
disalpuhon~missed
disampur~mixed
disampur~formulated
disan~there
disangkothon~attached
disangkothon~hanged
disangkothon~implicated
disaor~blended
disaor~mixed
disari~searching for
disarihon~supported
disarihon~cared about
disaritahon~told
disaritahon~let down
disarut~bitten
disassude~in all
disasude~everywhere
disasude~in all
diseat~slashed
diseat~cut
diseat~slashed
diseat~slaughtered
disegai~damaged
disegai~ransacked
diserbeng~glanced at
disesahon~abolished
disi~who are friends
disi~friendly
disi~who are friends
disihadaoan~in the distance
disihadaoan~overseas
disikkolahon~schooled
disikkolai~schooled
disimpan~saved
disinari~dried in the sun
disiranghon~divorced
disiranghon~separated
disolhothon~brought closer
dison~here
disonggaki~scolded
disorong~pushed
disoroni~treated
disorop~stung
disuan~buried
disuan~planted
disuba~try
disuba~tested
disude~in all
disude~para
disude~for all
disudeh~in all
disuhat~calculated
disuhat~be measured
disungguli~awakened
disungguli~reminded
disungkun~asked
disura~allegedly
disura~suspected
disura~guessed
disurasura~imagined
disurasura~allegedly
disurasura~estimated
disurasura~suspected
disurasura~guessed
disurat~registered
disurat~written
disurat~written
disurbu~burned
disuriranghon~reported
disuru~ordered
disuru~ordered
disuru~sent
ditaban~held captive
ditaban~taken prisoner
ditadinghon~abandoned
ditagi~billed
ditahan~detained
ditahi~aspired to
ditahi~intended
ditahi~planned
ditahuti~feared
ditailihon~glanced at
ditailihon~got it
ditallik~hacked
ditallik~beheaded
ditallik~cut
ditaluhon~defeated
ditambahon~added
ditampehon~placed
ditampul~cut
ditangani~taken care of
ditangi~heard
ditangi~listen
ditangiang~prayed
ditangko~picked up
ditangko~stolen
ditanom~buried
ditanom~buried
ditanom~buried
ditanom~planted
ditaon~felt
ditaon~baited
ditaonhon~felt
ditata~carried
ditatap~seen
ditatap~seen
ditatap~stared at
ditatap~looked at
ditea~lifted
ditea~weighed
ditea~be measured
ditektekhon~dropped
ditenggeng~inhibited
ditenggeng~detained
diterge~felt
ditigatigahon~traded
ditigatigahon~for sale
ditigatigahon~sold
ditilli~ignored
ditilli~glanced at
ditinggalhon~abandoned
ditingganghon~dropped
ditingkir~visited
ditingkir~visited
ditingkir~dilayat
ditingkir~seen
ditingkir~looked at
ditingtinghon~reported
ditingtinghon~reported
ditingtinghon~announced
ditiop~held
ditiop~touched
ditiop~held
ditiopi~held
ditiopi~detained
ditiptip~trimmed
ditiptip~cut
ditiroi~supervised
ditiroi~advised
ditiroi~advised
ditiru~emulated
ditiru~emulated
ditiru~imitated
dititi~chosen
ditodo~chosen
ditodo~appointed
ditogihon~invited
ditogu~established
ditogu~guided
ditogu~carried
ditogu~led
ditolhason~be delivered
ditolopi~helped
ditolopi~supported
ditolopi~Approved
ditombos~scolded
ditompahon~formed
ditompahon~created
ditompashon~dropped
ditomu~welcomed
ditomu~welcome
ditomu~followed
ditonahon~mandated
ditonahon~ordered
ditonahon~ordered
ditongko~cheated
ditongos~sent
ditongos~entrusted
ditontuhon~determined
ditontuhon~set
ditonun~woven
ditopot~proposed
ditorbangi~skipped
ditotophon~set
ditudoshon~compared to
ditudoshon~likened
ditudoshon~equalized
ditudu~chosen
ditudu~appointed
dituhas~suspected
dituhas~accused
dituhor~purchased
ditulak~returned
ditulak~rejected
ditulushon~launched
ditundun~protected
ditundun~guided
ditunggalinghon~dropped
ditunggalinghon~turned upside down
ditunggu~billed
ditungkup~closed
dituntun~forced to
diturasi~explained
dituriturihon~told
dituriturihon~told
ditutung~burned
ditutung~baked
ditutup~closed
dituturi~directed
dituturi~defended
dituturi~explained
diuba~changed
diuhal~discussed
diuhal~dug
diuji~try
diuji~tested
diujung~at the end
diujung~at the end
diula~managed
diula~done
diulahon~done
diulahon~handled
diulahon~attempted
diulanho~done
diullus~exhaled
diullus~blown
diultong~blown
diuluhon~arranged
diuluhon~headed
diuluhon~led
diumpat~revoked
diungkap~opened
diungkap~exposed
diunung~persuaded
diunung~proposed
diusa~cleaned
diusa~rubbed
diusung~transported
diusung~brought
diusung~carried
diutus~sent
diutus~represented
diutus~sent
djabum~in your home
do~do
do~So
do~huh
do~his
doaonma~pray
dobar~torrential
dobar~heavy
dobo~mayhem
dobo~torture
dodak~bran
dodo~guess
dodo~dive in
dodo~guess
dodo~guess
dodo~measuring
dodoan~conjecture
dodoan~guess
dodoan~guess
dodoan~size
dodong~stupid
dodong~stupid
dodong~stupid
dodot~join in
doge~Ouch
doge~Good grief
doge~O
dogol~stupid
dohar~can
dohar~lucky
dohar~sustenance
dohar~profit
doharna~his fortune
doho~dear
dohonon~say
dohor~near
dohot~together
dohot~with
dohot~follow
dohot~as well as
dohot~join in
dohoti~follow
dohoti~join in
dohoti~follow
dohotsa~with him
doit~taste it
doit~sting
dok~tell
dok~talk
dok~said
dok~say
dok~by the way
dok~sad
dok~said
dokdok~heavy
dokhon~let me know
dokhon~talk about it
dokhon~say
dokhon~say
dokhon~talk about it
dokhon~say
dokmi~you said
dokmu~you said
dokna~he said
dokna~wants
dokna~according to him
dokna~it's up to him
dokter~doctor
dolgi~rough
dolgi~protrude
doli~youth
doli~man
doli~youth
dolidoli~youth
dolidoli~lanang
dolidoli~man
dolidoli~youth
dolidoli~virgin
dolidoli~son
dolok~Hill
dolok~mountain
dolok~garden
dolok~field
dolokdolok~Hill
dolokdolok~plateau
dolokdolok~mountains
dolokdolok~hills
dolokdolok~hilly land
dolos~crazy
dolos~grind
dolos~run over
doltuk~pounding
doltuk~knock
doltuk~hit
doltuk~knock
doltuk~knock
doltuk~o'clock
doltukdoltuk~knock
domdom~roar
domdom~roar
domdom~thunderous sound
domino~dominoes
dompak~direction
dompak~face
dompol~putty
domu~gather
domu~together
domu~unite
domu~suitable
domu~join
domu~compact
domu~refer
domu~harmonious
domu~in accordance
domu~meeting
domu~invitation
donda~graceful
donda~beautiful
donda~kalam
donda~polite
donda~polite
dondon~pawn
dondon~overwrite
dondoni~override
dondoni~overlap
dongan~damping
dongan~bro
dongan~colleague
dongan~friend
dongan~you
dongan~fellow
dongan~buddy
dongan~Friend
dongan!~Friend
dongan!!~Friend
dongan!!!~Friend
dongan!!!!!!~Friend
dongan?~Friend
dongan??~Friend
dongan???~Friend
dongan????~Friend
donganan~friends
donganhi~my friend
donganhi~my partner
donganhi~my best friend
donganhi~my brother
donganhi~my friend
donganhu~my friend
donganhu~my partner
donganhu~my best friend
donganhu~my brother
donganhu~my friend
donganhuu~my friend
dongani~accompany
dongani~friend
dongani~join in
dongani~accompany
donganin~accompany
dongankhu~my friend
dongankku~my friend
donganlu~your friend
donganmi~your friend
donganmi~your partner
donganmi~your best friend
donganmi~your brother
donganmi~your friend
donganmmu~your friend
donganmu~your friend
donganmu~your partner
donganmu~your best friend
donganmu~your brother
donganmu~your friend
donganmu!~your friend
donganmu!!!~your friend
donganmu?~your friend
donganmu??~your friend
donganmuu~your friend
dongann~Friend
donganna~his friend
donganna~his colleague
donganna~his best friend
donganna~his brother
donganna~her friend
donganna?~her friend
dongannaaaaaa~her friend
donganni~her friend
donganniba~my friend
donganniiiii~her friend
dongannku~my friend
dongannn~Friend
dongannu~your friend
dongansu~her friend
donganya~her friend
dongkon~say
donok~near
donokhon~bring it closer
dopa~fathom
dopang~facing
dopang~fight
dopang~stand
dope~Again
dope~Still
dophon~consider
dophon~feel it
doras~fast
doras~torrential
doras~heavy
dorbia~animal
dorbia~livestock
dorbia~animal
doring~throw
dorpi~wall
dorpi~bulkhead
dorsun~blackened
dorsun~dirty
dorun~dirty
dorun~dirty
dorun~suffer
dorun~languish
dorun~difficult
dorunna~it's dirty
dorunna~it's dirty
dorunna~it's difficult
dos~The same
dos~balanced
dos~similar
dos~in accordance
dosa~sin
dosahu~my sin
dosam~your sin
dosamu~your sin
doshon~match
doshon~like
doshon~similar
doton~net
doton~net
dparhatopot~accelerated
dpatupa~provided
duansa~both
duansa~both of them
duda~mash
dugul~knee
dugul~knee
duguldugul~knee
duguldugul~knee
dugulna~his knees
dugulna~his knees
duhut~grass
duiung~Mermaid
dulo~tomorrow
dulo~visit
dulo~visit
dulo~look
duma~prosperous
duma~prosperous
dung~after
dung~after
dung~Already
dung~has
dungdung~achieved
dungdung~reach
dungdung~reach out
dungdung~achieve
dungdungon~achievements
dungdungon~reach
dungdungon~range
dungdungon~achievement
dungi~Then
dungkon~so
dungkon~after
dungkon~Already
dungkonsa~except
dungo~rise
dungo~get up
dungo?~get up
dungodungo~guard
dungodungo~wake up often
dungodungo~alert
dungoi~wake up
dungoi~wake
dungoin~wake
dungoo~get up
dungoooo~get up
durak~Embarrassed
durame~rice straw
durame~straw
durian~durian
duru~outside
duru~side
duru~edge
duruna~the outside
duruna~his side
duruna~the edge
durung~net
durung~net
durung~fishing nets
durus~curvy
durus~melt
durus~flow
durus~spilled
dusdus~insisted
dusdus~push
eak~shifted
eak~Chase
eak~next
eaki~Chase
eaki~next
ebat~come
ebat~visit
ebat~friendship
ebati~come
ebati~visit
ebati~friendship
edang~roam
edang~around
edang~picnic
edang~sightseeing
edang~tour
edangi~explore
edep~faint
ehet~scoffed
eksetera~extra
ela~persuade
ela~influence
elat~spiteful
elat~envious
elek~persuade
elek~please
elek~cooed
elekelek~please
eles~trivial
eles~not suitable
eles~unreasonable
ellem~persuade
ellem~cooed
eme~grain
eme~paddy
emper~home page
emper~porch
emper~terrace
emperan~home page
emperan~porch
emperan~terrace
endat~suction
endat~suck it
endat~pull
ende~sing
ende~song
ende~song
ende~hum
endehon~hum
endehon~sing it
endehon~sing
endehon~hum it
endehonon~sing
enges~nudge
engger~aim
engger~aim
engger~snoop
engger~monitor
engkel~laughter
engkelhon~laugh
eol~style
eol~motion
eper~hesitant
eret~shift
eret~move
esekesek~excitement
etek~small
eteng~small
etong~count
etong~amount
etong~appraise
etongan~count
gabagaba~coconut leaves
gabagaba~Christmas baubles
gabagaba~Christmas tree
gabe~Good
gabe~will
gabe~procreate
gabe~satisfactory results
gabe~So
gabe~precisely
gabe~become
gabe~prosperous
gabe~all
gabegabean~pregnant
gabegabean~contain
gabung~join
gabur~loose
gabur~gentle
gabur~soft
gabus~lie
gabus~clenched
gabus~grasp
gabusi~lie
gabusi~lie
gadap~sprawl
gadap~lying down
gadis~sell
gadong~cassava
gadong~sweet potato
gadu~embankment
gaga~proud
gaga~full of oneself
gaing~hanging
gaing~involved
gaingan~hanger
gaingan~connection
gait~joking
gait~joked
gait~joking
gait~funny
gait~fool around
gait~prank
gaitna~he joked
gaitna~he joked
gaitna~just for fun
gaitna~the funny thing is
gaitna~miss
gaitna~he joked
gaja~elephant
gaji~wages
gaji~wages
gajigajian~daily work
gajigajian~wages
gajina~his salary
gajina~his wages
gala~light up
galak~flame
galang~support
galang~support
galapang~wheel
galapang~wagon wheel
galas~glass
galas~buy
gale~weak
gale~weak
galege~damaged
galmit~pinch
galot~ferret
galumbang~wave
galumbang~wave
galung~embankment
gamang~nervous
gamang~worry
gambiri~candlenut
gambo~mud
gambungan~brag
gambungan~bullshit
gamik~mushy
gamir~gentle
gamir~soft
gampit~pinch
gana~form
gana~create
gana~oath
gana~wrought
ganaganaan~statue
ganaganaan~idol
ganaganaan~creation
ganaganaan~statue
ganaganaan~idol statue
ganaganaan~carved statue
ganaganaan~forging statues
ganana~the shape
ganana~he vowed
ganas~amok
ganas~wild
ganas~fierce
ganas~malignant
ganas~angry
ganasna~he raged
ganasna~the beast
ganasna~he was fierce
ganasna~fierce
ganasna~he was angry
ganda~increase
ganda~flower
ganda~plus
gandeng~collaborate
ganggang~tenuous
ganggu~disturb
ganggu~doubt
ganggu~nosy
ganggu~nosy
ganjal~prop
ganjang~tall
ganjang~long
ganjang?~long
ganjangg~long
ganjangggggggg~long
ganjing~neat
ganjing~dapper
ganti~copy
ganti~reparation
ganti~swap
gantung~hanging
gantungan~hanger
ganup~Enough
ganup~each
ganup~every
ganup~every
ganup~each
ganupan~all
ganupari~awaited
ganupari~every day
gaol~banana
gaor~noisy
gaor~chaotic
gaor~quarrel
gaor~noisy
gaorhon~mess it up
gaorhon~make a fuss
gapgap~Lie
gapgap~lie
gapgap~hoax
gapgapi~lie
gapgapi~lie
gara~coals
gara~chocolate
gara~pen
gara~under
garaga~marble
garaga~marbles
garaga~marbles
garang~brave
garapus~careless
garapus~not careful
garar~pay
garar~installments
garar~deposit
gararan~instalment
gararan~deposit
garda~wall
gareja~church
gareja~God's house
garejana~his church
garenda~grinding
garenda~miserly
gargaji~saw
gargar~broken
gargaran~fraction
gari~even
gari~handcuffs
gari~rather
gari~whereas
gariada~even
gariada~even
gariada~whereas
garut~hone
garut~scratch
gas~broken
gasa~amok
gasa~furious
gasak~fast
gashon~break it
gaung~hanging
gaungan~hanger
geanggeang~baby swing
geanggeang~hanger
geas~satisfied
geas~lying unconscious
gedek~amused
gedek~tickle
gedekgedek~armpit
gege~tired
gege~crushed
gelleng~child
gelleng~bani
gelleng~little
gelleng~small
gelleng~descendants
gellenghi~my child
gellenghu~my child
gellengmi~your child
gellengmu~your child
gellengna~his son
geneng~round
geno~destroyed
geno~damaged
geok~amused
geok~witty
geok~hilarious
geok~funny
geor~noisy
gere~joking
gere~joked
gere~joke
gere~prank
gerger~red
gerhana~eclipse
gessor~bickering
getes~fragile
getes~hack
giak~disgusting
giak~nauseous
gial~fed up
giang~stir
giang~chaotic
giangon~stir
gigi~disgusting
giling~crazy
giling~grind
gilinggiling~grind
gilinggiling~wheel
gilok~caterpillar
gim~handheld
ginjang~on
ginjanganna~on it
ginjangna~on it
ginomgom~protected
ginonggoman~owned by
ginonggomanna~his
giot~almost
giot~want to
giot~Want to
giot~diligent
giot~like
giot~Like
gira~in a hurry
gira~fast
girgir~persistent
girgir~diligent
girgir~Spirit
girgir~persistent
gisi~nutrition
goarhi~my name
goarhu~my name
goari~name it
goarmi~your name
goarmu~your name
goarna~his name
goarniba~my name
gobar~blanket
gobar~thick blanket
godang~Lots
godang~big
godangan~quite a lot
godangan~lots
godangan~most
godangan~more
godangla~lots of it
godangna~many
godangna~big
godung~building
godung~guest house
gogo~Power
gogo~results
gogo~strong
gogo~capable
gogo~capable
gogo~power
gogohon~produce
gogohon~strengthen
gogohon~able
gogohonon~strengthen
gogom~your energy
gogomi~your energy
gogomu~your energy
gogotna~how difficult it is
gok~Lots
gok~Enough
gok~full
gokhon~invite
gokhon~invite
gokhon~invitation
gokhonna~the invitation
goki~fulfill
golap~dark
golap~pitch black
golap~pitch black
golle~Power
golle~power
gollem~your energy
gollemu~your energy
golmok~fat
golmok~plump
golmok~fat
golmok~chubby
golom~handheld
gombang~have an affair
gombang~adultery
gombangonmu~your mistress
gombar~Photo
gombar~picture
gombar~portrait
gombaran~floor plan
gombaran~description
gombaran~painting
gombaran~map
gombaran~portrait
gombung~swollen
gombung~bloated
gombung~bloated
gomgom~come on
gomgom~protect
gomgoman~come on
gomgoman~protection
gomgomi~come on
gomgomi~protect
gomos~tightly
gomos~strong
gomos~truly
gomos~persistent
gompang~squat
gompis~fit
gompis~Excellent
gompis~neat
gompis~Healthy
gompisna~fit
gompisna~steady
gompisna~neat
gompisna~healthy
gompul~bear
gomuk~fat
gondang~drum
gondangna~the drum
gondit~belt
gondit~belt
gong~sticky
gong~still
gong~not moving
gonghon~invite
gonghon~invite
gonong~round
gonong~round
gonti~change
gonting~precarious
gonting~canyon
gonting~waist
gonting~narrow
gonting~not wide
gopa~is lost
gopa~fell down
gopa~make a loss
gopa~responsibility
gopa~come up short
gopa~overwrite
gopala~suffer
gopas~strong
gopas~agile
gopgop~snoop
gopgop~take a peek
gopu~destroyed
gopu~crushed
gopuhon~destroy it
gopuhon~crush it
gora~shrieked
gora~case
gora~big dispute
gora~shout
goragora~calling
goragora~screech
goragora~scream
gorbang~shaving
gorbang~found out
gorbang~cut
goreng~fry
gorga~painting
gorga~carve
gorgaan~painting
gorgaan~carving
gorgor~widespread
gorgor~flame
gorgor~hot
gorgorhon~boom
gorgorhon~turn on
gorgorhon~heat
gorgori~boom
gorgori~turn on
gorgori~heat
gorjong~bloated
gorjong~have a cold
gosa~beat it
gosa~torture
gota~animal blood
gota~livestock blood
gota~sap
gota~pulut
gotana~the sap
gotap~broken
gotap~cut
gotap~separated
gotaphon~break it
gotaphon~cut it
gotaphon~decide
gotil~pinch
gotil~bitter
gotil~jewer
gotil~harvest
gotil~reap
gottapkon~break it
gu~nape
guga~stir
guga~disturb
guga~chaotic
gugaan~stir
gugaan~disturbance
gugaan~mess
gugahon~mix it up
gugahon~mess it up
gugut~bite
guit~poke
guit~guit
guit~touch
guitan~poke
guitan~touch
gula~sugar
gulasa~lasak
gulmit~motion
gulmiton~movement
gulok~caterpillar
gulsak~avail
gulsak~To use
gulsak~profit
gulsakna~benefits
gulsakna~use
gulsakna~Fortunately
gului~grease
gului~rub
gului~grease
gulutan~fight over
guluton~booty
gumarapus~careless
gumarapus~reckless
gumodang~more
gumodang~maximum
gumpok~hunchback
guna~avail
guna~function
guna~To use
guna~benefit
guna~his nape
gunahon~take advantage
gunahon~function
gunahon~use
gunahon~take advantage
gunana~benefits
gunana~its function
gunana~use
gunana~the benefits
gundar~round
gundar~brush
gundur~gourd
gundur~pumpkin
gunjal~shake
gunom~immerse
gunsang~shake
guntur~noisy
guntur~troublemaker
guntur~noisy
gupak~machete
gupak~machete
gurat~line
gurat~scratch
gurat~streak
gurbak~swollen
gurdak~driving away livestock
gurdak~drive away
gurdung~hunchback
gurgar~untidy
gurgar~chaotic
gurgar~chaotic
gurgari~messy
gurgari~mess it up
gurit~line
gurit~scratch
gurit~streak
guru~Teacher
guru~educator
guru~teacher
guruhon~learn
gurum~your teacher
gurumu~your teacher
gusar~furious
gusar~angry
gusar~collect
gutingna~it's dirty
haadongon~circumstances
haadongon~presence
haadongonna~the situation
haadongonna~his presence
haandoruson~starving
habadiaon~eternity
habadiaon~holiness
habadiaon~piety
habadiaon~chastity
habagakhon~beauty
habagakon~elegance
habagakon~beauty
habagakon~beauty
habagakon~beauty
habagakonna~its elegance
habagakonna~her beauty
habagakonna~its beauty
habagakonna~her beauty
habahaba~windstorm
habahaba~storm
habahaba~roar
habahaba~lightning
habahaba~tornado
habahaba~typhoon
habalangon~faithfulness
habalian~release
habalian~escape
habang~flutter
habang~fly
habangsa~power
habangsa~throne
habangsa~throne
habangsoon~nationality
habar~news
habaranion~courage
habarmu~your news
habarna~reportedly
habegean~sounds
habeguon~courage
habengeton~patience
habengeton~fortitude
habengeton~perseverance
haberengan~visible
haberengan~found out
habiaran~worry
habiaran~afraid
habiaranna~his anxiety
habiaranna~his fear
habibiton~wisdom
habibiton~policy
habibiton~intelligence
habilangan~counted
habinsar~rise
habinsaran~east
habinsarna~its publication
habir~depends
habir~drooping
habir~decompose
habis~finished
habis~blank
habis~finished
habishon~spend it
habishon~finish
habisukon~wisdom
habisukon~policy
habisukon~wisdom
habisukon~ingenuity
habit~efficient
habit~efficiency
habobongot~entry
habodohon~ignorance
habojokon~confusion
habolusan~missed
habonaron~true
habonaron~truth
habonaron~honesty
habonaronna~the truth
habonaronna~his honesty
habong~wing
habongna~his wings
haboraton~object
habosuran~full
habot~sorrow
habot~overcast
habot~sad
habot~difficult
habotna~the sadness
habotna~it's cloudy
habotna~sadly
habotna~it's difficult
habubuhan~Virgin girl
habubuhan~virgin
haburju~kind
haburjuan~kind
haburjuanmu~your kindness
haburjuaon~kind
haburjuhon~kind
haburjuon~kind
haburjuon~honesty
haburjuon~craft
haburjuon~piety
haburjuon~sincerity
haburjuonmi~your kindness
haburjuonmu~your kindness
haburjuonna~his goodness
haburjuonna~his honesty
haburjuonna~the craft
haburjuonna~his piety
haburjuonna~his sincerity
haburjuonna!~his goodness
habus~broom
habut~fog
habutongan~full
hadadao~distance
hadal~bandal
hadal~wayward
hadal~Hooligan
hadal~stubborn
hadal~lasak
hadal~drunk
hadal~naughty
hadalanisa~the way
hadameon~concordance
hadameon~security
hadameon~peace
hadameon~harmony
hadameon~calm
hadameon~peace
hadang~clothing
hadangiron~bitterness
hadangiron~destitution
hadangiron~misery
hadangiron~trouble
hadangolon~destitution
hadangolon~sadness
hadangolon~sadness
hadangolon~misery
hadaoan~distance
hadapotan~found
hadapotan~found out
hadatuon~shamanism
hadaulaton~wisdom
hadaulaton~sovereignty
hadaulaton~piety
hadaulaton~politeness
hadaulaton~faithfulness
hadaulaton~courtesy
hademakon~peace
hademakon~harmony
hadengganan~kind
hadengganan?~kind
hadengganon~niceness
hadengganon~kind
hadengganon~beauty
hadengganon~establishment
hadengganon~harmony
hadengganonna~its goodness
hadengganonna~his goodness
hadengganonna~its beauty
hadengganonna~its stability
hadengganonna~harmony
hadirion~personality
hadirion~firmness
hadirion~establishment
hadirion~principle
hadirion~figure
hadirion~habit
hadodongon~ignorance
hadodongon~ignorance
hadohoan~most important
hadohoan~main
hadokdokon~object
hadoson~similarity
hadoson~equality
haduan~later
haduan~later
haduan~the day after tomorrow
hadumaon~prosperity
hadumaon~well-being
hadungon~end
hadungon~end
hadungonna~Finally
hadungonna~the end
hae~thigh
haehae~thigh
haehe~consideration
haen~cloth
haenna~the cloth
hagabeon~riches
hagabeonna~his wealth
hagabeonni~his wealth
hagabuson~lie
hagaleon~weakness
haganjangon~long
haganupan~whole
haganupan~all of them
hagaoron~commotion
hagarangon~courage
hagarangon~valor
hagegeon~fatigue
hagenoon~destruction
hagenoon~damage
hagiot~ambition
hagiot~desire
hagiot~pleasure
hagiot~favorite
hagiothon~desire
hagiothu~my wish
hagiotna~his ideals
hagiotna~his wish
hagiotna~the fun
hagiotna~his favorite
hagogoku~my power
hagogoon~strength
hagogoon~sturdiness
hagogoon~ability
hagogoonhi~my power
hagogoonhi~my abilities
hagogoonhu~my power
hagogoonhu~my abilities
hagogoton~difficulty
hagolapon~darkness
hagolapon~benighted
hagompison~fitness
hagompison~stability
hagompison~neatness
hagompison~health
hagulsakon~utility
hagulsakon~profit
hagunaon~utility
haha~brother
haha~sibling
haha~Older brother
hahahu~my brother
hahahu~my older brother
haham~your brother
haham~your sister
hahamu~your brother
hahamu~your sister
hahana~his brother
hahana~her brother
hahansiton~pain
hahantuson~clarity
hahapong~hurry
hahatotongon~astonished
hahatotongon~shock
hahipason~health
hahisapon~greed
hahisapon~greed
hahisaron~health
haholomon~hereafter
haholomon~darkness
haholomon~darkness
haholongakon~My favorite
haholongan~love
haholongan~beloved
haholongan~favorite
haholonganhi~my love
haholonganhi~my darling
haholonganhi~My favorite
haholonganhu~my love
haholonganhu~my darling
haholonganhu~My favorite
haholonganmi~your love
haholonganmi~your lover
haholonganmi~your darling
haholonganmu~your love
haholonganmu~your lover
haholonganmu~your darling
haholonganna~his love
haholonganna~his lover
haholonganna~his favorite
haholongi~loving
haholongi~he joked
haholongi~love
haholongi~darling
haholsoan~worry
haholsoan~worry
haholsoanna~his anxiety
haholsoanna~his worries
hahomion~study
hahomion~ascetic
hahomion~worship
hahomion~understand
hahondoon~melancholy
hahondoon~sadness
hahormaton~honor
hahormaton~courtesy
hahosukon~greed
hahurangon~lack
hahurangonhi~my shortcomings
hahurangonhu~my shortcomings
hahurangonna~the drawback
haidaan~visible
haidaan~obvious
haidaan~appear
haidaan~looks
hail~hook
hail~fishing rod
hailaon~genitals
hailna~the hook
hailna~the fishing rod
hais~kais
hait~hook
hait~involved
haithait~pole
haithait~hooks
haithait~connection
haithait~hook
hajahatan~crime
hajahaton~crime
hajahaton~criminal
hajanghajang~space
hajanghajang~horizon
hajanghajang~universe
hajapjapon~greed
hajegeson~niceness
hajegeson~beauty
hajegeson~beauty
hajegesonna~its goodness
hajegesonna~its beauty
hajegesonna~its beauty
hajekjekon~mischief
hajolmaon~humanity
hajungkaton~mischief
hala~star
hala~time
hala~scorpion
hala~date
halado~serve
halado~assembly
halaean~favorite
halaean~favorite
halahala~mastered
halak~race
halak~man
halak~person
halak!!!~person
halak?~person
halakdo~the person
halakk~person
halakkuon~behavior
halakkuonna~his behavior
halakna~his people
halakna~the person
halakna?~the person
halakni~the person
halaknya~the person
halalapan~negligence
halalapan~forgetfulness
halalapan~busyness
halalas~excitement
halang~prop
halangan~obstacle
halangan~obstacle
halaosan~too much
halas~Laos
halas~galangal
haleaon~humiliation
haleaon~abomination
halehetan~niceness
halehetan~kind
halehetan~beauty
halehetanna~its goodness
halehetanna~his goodness
halehetanna~her beauty
halelengon~too long
halenseng~doubt
haleon~starving
haleon~famine
hali~dig
hali~time
halian~excavation
halian~irrigation
haliang~around
haliang~cattle neck
halibutongan~rainbow
halihali~many times
halihali~calculation
halihali~multiplication
halilu~shadow
halilu~shadow
halilum~your shadow
halilumu~your shadow
halina~time
halingan~obstacle
halingan~obstacle
hallung~carry it
halobian~privilege
halobian~superiority
halobion~excess
halojaan~fatigue
halojaon~fatigue
halojaon~lethargy
halojaon~fatigue
halolaon~obstacle
halolaon~obstacle
halomoan~desire
halomoanhu~my wish
halomoanna~his wish
halomoon~favorite
halomoonhu~my favorite
halomoson~worry
halomoson~worries
halomoson~afraid
halomosonna~his anxiety
halomosonna~his worries
halomosonna~his fear
halongonan~desert
halongonan~desert
halongonan~desert
haluang~codot
haluang~bat
haluang~Shucks
haluang~bat
haluaon~freedom
haluaon~freedom
halung~necklace
halungunon~sadness
halupahon~forgetfulness
halupahonon~forgotten
halupaon~forgetfulness
halus~fail
halus~Wrong
halusna~the failure
halusna~wrong
hamagoan~lost
hamagogoan~powerful
hamailaan~genitals
hamajuon~success
hamajuon~progress
hamaleon~starving
hamaloon~intelligence
hamaloon~cleverness
hamaloon~cleverness
hamamaras~pity
hamamaras~concern
hamamate~death
hamangtahe~Good grief
hamaolhon~appreciate it
hamarhaseaon~success
hamaruntungon~luck
hamat~consider
hamateon~death
hamattean~death
hambang~flower
hambing~goat
hambirang~left
hambirangna~the left
hamenakon~comfort
hami~we
hamiandu~we
haminisiaon~humanity
haminjon~incense
hamlet~girl
hamlet~guy
hamlet~beloved
hamlet~boyfriend
hamlethu~my girl
hamlethu~my guy
hamlethu~my darling
hamlethu~my boyfriend
hamletmi~your girl
hamletmi~your guy
hamletmi~your lover
hamletmi~your boyfriend
hamletmu~your girl
hamletmu~your guy
hamletmu~your lover
hamletmu~your boyfriend
hamletna~the girl
hamletna~the guy
hamletna~his lover
hamletna~his girlfriend
hamokuson~greed
hamonangan~victory
hamong~faint
hamongkuson~greed
hamorahan~riches
hamoraon~riches
hamoraonn~riches
hamoraonna~his wealth
hampung~village
hampung~village
hampung~chase the thief
hamsar~fluent
hamu~You
hamu~you
hamu~You
hamu~you
hamu~brothers and sisters
hamubaon~change
hamuliaon~majesty
hamuliaon~glory
hamuna~you
hamusuon~war
hamusuon~hostility
hanami~we
hanataan~reality
hanataanna~in fact
handang~pen
handang~fence
handanghandang~fence
handehande~shawl
handit~lift
hangalion~freezing
hangar~starving
hangoluon~life
hangoluonhi~my life
hangoluonhu~my life
hansar~diarrhea
hansar~dysentery
hansar~dragging
hansit~Sick
hansitan~pain
hansiti~hurt
hansur~destroyed
hansurhon~destroy it
hantus~clear
hantushon~explain
haol~hug
haol~hug
haol~embrace
haolan~cuddle
haolan~hug
haolan~embrace
haolanmi~your hug
haolanmi~your hug
haolanmi~your embrace
haolanmu~your hug
haolanmu~your hug
haolanmu~your embrace
haop~quick
haop~quick
haor~noisy
haor~lasak
haotoon~ignorance
haotoon~ignorance
hapal~thick
hapala~head
hapala~commander
hapala~leader
hapalana~his head
hapalana~the commander
hapalana~the leader
hapalang~absurd
hapandeon~cleverness
hapandeon~cleverness
hapandeon~knock
hapantunon~courtesy
hapargulsakon~luck
hapariron~pain
hapariron~sadness
haparlabaon~luck
hapas~cotton
hapas~kapok
hapataron~clarity
hapateon~certainty
hapateon~commitment
hape~thereby
hape~whereas
hape~apparently
hape~it turns out
hapengani~whereas
hapian~praise
hapian~salute
hapintoron~truth
hapintoron~honesty
hapintoron~straightness
hapintoronna~the truth
hapintoronna~his honesty
hapintoronna~straightness
hapistaron~cleverness
hapistaron~cleverness
hapit~pinch
hapitan~clothespin
hapodoman~fall asleep
hapogoson~destitution
hapogoson~poverty
hapolinon~privilege
hapolinon~perfection
haporluon~need
haporluon~needs
hapormanon~honesty
hapormanon~courtesy
hapormanonna~his honesty
hapormanonna~his politeness
haporseaon~creed
haporseaon~faith
haporseaon~trust
haporseaon~confidence
haporseaonna~his creed
haporseaonna~his faith
haporseaonna~his trust
haporseaonna~his belief
haporsukon~destitution
haporsukon~misery
haporusan~escape
haporusan~shelter
haposan~trust
haposanna~his trust
hapuloan~solitude
hapunjungon~lonely
hapur~tasty
hapur~chalk
hapuragaon~courage
haputuson~decision
hara~invite
hara~invite
haraan~invitation
haraan~invitation
haradeon~willingness
haradeon~willingness
haraguan~doubt
harajaon~kingdom
harambir~coconut
harambir~palm
harang~coral
harangan~forest
harangka~candlenut
harangon~essay
haraparon~starving
harat~bite
harbangan~gate
harbangan~gate
harbangan~gate
harbe~gate
harbe~decompose
harbue~rice
harbuena~the rice
harentaon~togetherness
harentaon~compactness
harhar~untidy
harhar~destroyed
harhar~go out
harhar~free
harhar~date
harhar~decompose
harhar~explain
harharhon~let go
harharhon~take it off
harhari~destroy it
harhari~take it off
harhari~explain
hariar~stir
hariaron~stir
hariburon~crowd
harimo~tiger
harimpang~part
harimpang~group
harimpang~florets
harinuan~bee
haroan~birth
harohaon~will
harohaon~desire
harohaonna~his will
harohaonna~his wish
harom~shipwrecked
harom~sink
harop~please
haropan~hope
haroro~origin
haroro~arrival
haroro~presence
haroro~source
haroroahu~my arrival
haroroan~origin
haroroan~arrival
haroroan~presence
haroroan~entrance
haroroanhu~my origins
haroroanhu~my arrival
haroroanhu~my presence
haroroanmu~your origins
haroroanmu~your arrival
haroroanmu~your presence
haroroanna~its origins
haroroanna~his arrival
haroroanna~his presence
harorohu~my arrival
harorohu~my presence
harorom~your arrival
harorom~your presence
haroromu~your arrival
haroromu~your presence
harorona~origin
harorona~his arrival
harorona~his presence
harorona~the source
harosuon~familiarity
harosuon~intimacy
harotas~paper
haru~especially
haru~whereas
haru~please
haruar~go out
haruarhon~take it out
haruarna~out
harugian~loss
harungguan~crowd
harungguan~crowd
hasabamon~resignation
hasabamon~patience
hasabamon~fortitude
hasabaran~patience
hasadaon~unity
hasalaan~error
hasandirion~solitude
hasandirionhu~my loneliness
hasang~arid
hasang~pale
hasangapon~honor
hasangapon~glory
hasangapon?~honor
hasapi~lyre
hasar~rough
hasasadaon~solitude
hasasadaonhu~my loneliness
hasasaor~mingle
hasea~useful
hasea~succeed
hasea~success
haseahon~use
haseana~success
haseana~use
haseana~its success
hasegaon~damage
hasehaton~health
hasehatonmu~your health
haserepon~humility
hasesega~damage
hasian~love
hasian~beloved
hasian~favorite
hasian?~beloved
hasiangan~earth
hasiangan~world
hasiangan~worldly
hasianhi~my love
hasianhi~My favorite
hasianhi~My darling
hasianhu~my love
hasianhu~My favorite
hasianhu~My darling
hasiani~love
hasiani~darling
hasianku~My darling
hasianmi~your love
hasianmi~your darling
hasianmi~your darling
hasianmu~your love
hasianmu~your darling
hasianmu~your darling
hasiann~beloved
hasiann~Darling
hasianna~his love
hasianna~his favorite
hasianna~sadly
hasiannku~my darling
hasiannku??~my darling
hasiannn~beloved
hasiannn~Darling
hasiannnkuuu~My darling
hasiholan~longing
hasintaon~love
hasintongngan~truth
hasintongon~truth
hasintongon~as it happens
hasipelebeguon~animism
hasiphon~shut up
hasiputon~busyness
hasogoon~hatred
hasohoton~marriage
hasohoton~wedding
hasolohon~pleasure
hasolomon~favorite
hasolomon~favorite
hasolomonhu~my favorite
hasolomonhu~my favorite
hasoloon~pleasure
hasoloon~favorite
hasomalhon~get used to it
hasomalon~customs
hasomalon~culture
hasomalon~hobby
hasomalon~customs
hasomalon~habit
hasomalon~tradition
hasonangan~pleasure
hasonangkon~pleasant
hasonangon~security
hasonangon~happiness
hasonangon~pleasure
hasosogo~hatred
hassa~glass
hassa~lens
hassang~peanut
hassur~destroyed
hasudungan~privilege
hasudungan~beloved
hasudungan~specificity
hasudungan~favorite
hasuharonna~the opposite
hasuhuton~party organizer
hasuhuton~leader
hasuhuton~person responsible
hasuhuton~leader
hasuksesan~success
hasundaton~failure
hasundutan~west
hasurungon~excess
hasusaon~trouble
hasusuda~end
hasusuda~running out
hata~Language
hata~talk
hata~word
hata~say
hata~by the way
hata~said
hatahata~shave
hatahata~talk
hatahata~cut
hatahatahu~my words
hatahatahu~my words
hatahatam~your words
hatahatam~your talk
hatahatami~your words
hatahatami~your talk
hatahatamu~your words
hatahatamu~your talk
hatahon~talk about it
hatahon~say
hatahon~talk about it
hatahon~say
hatahononhu~I said
hatahu~my language
hatahu~I'm talking
hatahu~I said
hatahu~I said
hatahu~my words
hatahuton~afraid
hatai~talk
hatai~dwarf
hatai~by the way
hatam~your language
hatam~you talk
hatam~your word
hatam~you said
hatam~you talk
hatam~your words
hatami~your language
hatami~you talk
hatami~you said
hatami~you said
hatami~you talk
hatami~your words
hatamu~your language
hatamu~you talk
hatamu~you said
hatamu~you talk
hatamu~your words
hatana~the language
hatana~he spoke
hatana~he said
hatana~he said
hatana~his words
hatanda~I know
hatanghu~I said
hatanghu~my words
hatanghu~my words
hatangkangon~stubbornness
hatangkangon~mischief
hataon~talk
hataon~saying
hataridaon~visible
hataridaon~appearance
hatatanak~completeness
hatatanak~stability
hatiaan~forecast
hatian~scales
hatigoran~justice
hatigoran~truth
hatigoran~honesty
hatiha~time
hatiha~when
hatiha~predict
hatiha~tempo
hatiha~time
hatimboon~height
hatiuron~brightness
hatiuron~clarity
hatoban~slave
hatoban~servant
hatomanon~courtesy
hatombuson~success
hatonangan~calm
hatonangon~calm
hatontuon~certainty
hatontuon~provision
hatop~fast
hatop~quick
hatop!~fast
hatopan~general
hatoplah~hurry up
hatopma~hurry up
hatopmah~hurry up
hatopp~fast
hatoppma~hurry up
hatoppp~fast
hatopppp~fast
hatoppppp~fast
hatoppppp??~fast
hatorangan~information
hatoranganna~in fact
hatorangannni~in fact
hatorangon~information
hatorhison~freshness
hatorhison~health
hatoropon~most
hatoropon~crowd
hatoruon~humility
hatotoga~power
hatotoga~strength
hatotong~stunned
hatotong~amazed
hatotong~startled
hatuaon~blessing
hatuaon~luck
hatuaon~old age
hatudosan~comparison
hatudosan~compare
hatumbar~coriander
hatundalan~back
hatutubu~birth
hatutubum~your birth
hatutubumu~your birth
hau~wood
hau~tree
haua~weather
haubaon~change
haugamoon~religious
haulion~beauty
haulion~beauty
haulionna~her beauty
haulionna~its beauty
hauma~field
hauma~ricefield
hauna~the wood
hauna~the tree
hauntungon~profit
haurakon~shame
haurakon~genitals
hea~Once
heang~intimate parts
heang~vagina
heap~enthusiastic
heap~enthusiastic
heba~big
heba~up in arms
hebo~rowdy
hebo~uproar
hebo~up in arms
hedek~take profit
hedek~lick
hehe~rise
hehe~get up
hehe~stand
hehe~fast
hehe~agile
hehei~wake
hehelai~cursing
hela~son-in-law
hela~son-in-law
hela~son-in-law
helam~your son-in-law
helami~your son-in-law
helamu~your son-in-law
helep~Help
helhul~messy
helhul~hassle
hembang~flower
hembang~blossom
hemut~hide
heneng~round
henenghon~round up
henes~slow
henses~nervous
henset~brag
henset~joking
hepeng~money
hepeng~Money
hepeng!~Money
hepeng?~Money
hepeng??~Money
hepengdo~the money
hepengg~Money
hepenggg~Money
hepenghi~my money
hepenghi~my money
hepenghu~my money
hepenghu~my money
hepengkku~my money
hepengku~my money
hepengmi~your money
hepengmi~your money
hepengmu~your money
hepengmu~your money
hepengmu?~your money
hepengna~the money
hepengna~the money
hepengna!~the money
hepengna?~the money
hepengni~the money
hepengnya~the money
hepengsa~the money
herbang~title
herbang~flower
herbang~blossom
herbanghon~hold it
herbanghon~develop
herek~monkey
herek~armpit
herek~monkey
hereng~brackets
herengan~confinement
hersut~tangled
hesut~small
hesut~wrinkle
hetek~small
heu~tired
heu~sluggish
heu~tired
hian~very
hian~the rules
hian~very
hian~formerly
hian~wants
hian~very
hian~was
hiang~arid
hiang~dry
hiap~fan
hibas~deft
hibas~agile
hibul~round
hibul~round
hidongani~accompanied
hijabu~At home
hije~deer
hije~deer
hilala~flavor
hilalahon~feel it
hilalai~taste it
hilalan~felt
hilalana~it feels like
hilang~tilap
hilang~hoax
hilapon~wave
hillong~shine
hillong~luster
himpal~all over
himpal~all
himpal~intact
himpalna~entirely
himpalna~everything
himpalna~completely
himpu~gather
hinaholongan~I love you
hinajonok~brought closer
hindat~lift
hindu~Hindu
hinos~tired
hinos~tired
hinsa~deft
hinsa~fast
hinsa~agile
hinsat~get up
hinsathon~wake
hio~clothes
hio~a kind of lotek
hipaboa~notified
hipas~Healthy
hipas~in good health
hipas~Happy
hipasan~salvation
hira~think
hira~like
hirana~perhaps
hirana~it seems like
hirang~basket
hirang~dustpan
hirapon~wave
hiras~Spirit
hiras~tough
hirim~please
hirim~want to
hirimhon~send
hirimon~hope
hirimonna~hope
hirtang~dry
hirtang~lying stiff
hisap~desire
hisap~lust
hisap~greedy
hisapna~his wish
hisapna~his lust
hisapna~greedy
hisar~Healthy
hita~We
hitado~us
hitanya~us
hite~titi
hitir~shiver
hitir~vibrate
hitirhitir~afraid
hitirhitir~worry
ho~you
ho~You
ho~you
hobar~chat
hobaron~chat
hobaron~chat
hobas~enterprising
hobas~pack
hobas~serve
hobas~diligent
hobas~Ready
hobat~hug
hobol~fat
hobol~fat
hobot~overcast
hoda~horse
hodar~dirty
hodar~dirty
hodar~unclean
hodar~improperly
hoding~special
hoding~special
hodok~sweat
hodok~sweat
hodong~midrib
hodong~Bone leaves
hodongna~the midrib
hoga~happy
hoga~like
hohar~divorced
hohar~disbanded
hohom~silent
hohom~orderly
hohomhon~shut up
hohos~belt
hohos~belt
hoi~complained
hois~kais
hoji~want to
hoji~want
hojot~fast
hojot~quick
holak~fathom
holan~only
holan~only
holang~distance
holang~separate
holang~hose
holangholang~between
holangholang~by turns
holangkon~Separate
holangna~the distance
holangna~he said
holbung~valley
hole~paddle
holei~paddle
holiholi~framework
holiholi~frame
holiholi~bones
holiholi~bones
holit~miserly
holit~stingy
holom~dark
holom~dark
holong~Love
holong~love
holong~Darling
holong~hool
holonghi~My love
holonghi~my love
holonghi~My darling
holonghu~My love
holonghu~my love
holonghu~My darling
holongi~loving
holongi~love
holongi~darling
holongmi~your love
holongmi~your love
holongmi~your darling
holongmu~your love
holongmu~your love
holongmu~your darling
holongna~his love
holongna~his love
holongna~sadly
holso~complained
holso~worry
holsoan~complaint
holsoan~worried
holsoanna~his complaint
homat~closed
hombal~only
hombal~only
hombal~just
hombal~time
hombang~wide
hombang~flat
hombar~near
hombar~in accordance
homi~spiritual event
homi~confidential
homi~hidden
homur~blurry
homur~faint
hona~hit
honas~pineapple
hondo~gloomy
hondo~sad
hondur~slack
honong~dive
honuk~notched
honul~notched
hopal~boat
hopal~aircraft
hophop~fight for
hophop~embrace
hopos~narrow
hora~ferret
horas~peace
horas~Hello
horas~prosperous
horas~Happy
horas~WELCOME
horas~goodbye
horas~firm
horbo~buffalo
hordit~vibrate
horhon~because
horhonna~why
horis~keris
horja~party
horjana~the party
hormat~respect
hormat~polite
horong~line
horong~race
horong~group
horong~gathering
horsik~desert
horsik~sand
horsik~barren land
horuah~thereby
horuah~apparently
horung~necklace
horunghorung~necklace
horus~take
horus~spend it
hos~scorching
hosa~breath
hosana~his breath
hosing~come back
hosing~shift
hosinghon~turn it over
hosinghon~slide it
hosom~feud
hosom~dull
hosom~enemy
hosomna~his revenge
hosomna~his enemy
hosuk~greedy
hosuk~squirrel
hot~Excellent
hot~still
hotang~rattan
hotek~cackle
houm~race
houm~group
hu~my
hu~too
hua~What
hua~broth
huaboto~I know
huae~I think
huahap~I think
huahaphon~I think
hualuhon~I mixed it up
hualusi~I answered
huang~snot
huar~demolish
huar~dig
huar~match
huaso~power
huasoi~mastered
hubahen~I made it
hubahen~I made it
hubahen?~I made it
hubege~I heard
hubereng~I see
hubereng~I looked
hubereng~I looked
huberengi~I'll see
huberengi~I looked at him
huberengi~I looked at it
huboan~I brought it
hubolus~I passed
huboto~I know
hubuat~I took it
hubuat~I made it
huburjuan~kind
huburjuhon~kind
hudalani~I do it
hudali~hoe
hudia~Where to
hudok~I said
hudok~I said
hudok~I say
hudok~I said
hudokhon~I said
hudokhon~I said
hudon~pot
hudophon~I assume
hudophon~I think
hudulo~I visited
hudulo~I'll visit
hudulo~I'll visit
hudulo~I looked
huduru~go out
hudus~fast
hudus~insisted
hugalmit~I pinch
hugotil~I pinch
hugurat~brush
hugurat~I scratched it
hugurat~I scratched it
hugurat~I wrote
huhaholongi~I love
huhaholongi~I love you
huhaholongi~I love you
huhaol~I hugged him
huhaol~I hug
huhaol~kukukul
huhasiholi~kukangeni
huhasiholi~I miss it
huhatahon~I'm talking about
huhatahon~I said
huhatahon~I say
huhilala~I think
huhilalahon~I think
huhira~I think
huhuasi~opening
huhuasi~introduction
huhuasi~explanation
huhut~And
huhut~with
huhut~while
huhut~at a time
huhut~while
huhut~as well as
huida~I see
huidaaa~I see
huingot~I remember
hujabu~to the house
hujabuh~to the house
hujaga~I'll take care of it
hujalo~I ask
hujalo~I accept
hujangkon~I admit
hujangkon~I welcome it
hujangkon~I'll accommodate it
hujangkon~I accept
hujur~javelin
hujur~spear
hulahula~uncle
hulbong~notched
hulean~I give
hulehon~I give
hulehon~I love you
hulhulan~roll
huling~sound
huling~who?
huling~scold
hulinghuling~skin
hulingi~who?
hulingna~it sounds
hulsoan~complaint
hum~How could you
hum~have the heart
humaliang~around
humaliang~around
humaliangmu~around you
humaliangna~around him
humaliangna~surroundings
humophop~fight for
humusor~move
humusor~shifted
humutur~sway
hundul~Sit down
hundulan~seat
hundulan~butt
hundulan~hips
hundulan~seat
hungkam~make-up
hungkup~sheath
hungkup~closed
hungkus~fragrant
hungkus~fragrant
hunik~yellow
hunik~turmeric
hunsi~key
hunsina~the key
huntal~shake
huntal~shake
hunti~uphold
hupaboa~I'll tell you
hupaboa??~I'll tell you
hupaima~later
hupaima~I will wait
hupainte~later
hupainte~I will wait
hupamate~I'll kill him
hupamate~I turned it off
hupangido~I ask
hupangido~I ask
hupanotnoti~I'll see
hupanotnoti~I looked at him
huparsinta~I aspire to
huparsinta~I hope
huparsinta~I want
huparsinta~I ask
hupas~oppa
hupas~police
hupas~security guard
hupasae~I finished
hupasahat~I convey
hupasangap~I glorify it
hupasangap~I appreciate it
hupasangap~I respect
hupasidung~I finished
hupasingkop~I finished
hupasondot~I finished
hupastap~I slapped him
hupatama~I respect
hupatama~I agree
hupatolhas~I convey
hupatupa~I formed
hupatupa~I made it
hupatupa~I serve
huphup~closed
hupikkir~I think
hupikkiri~I think
hupudi~to the back
huputik~I picked it
huputik~I picked it up
hurak~dig
huranapi~I looked at him
huranapi~I thought about it
huranapi~I stared
hurang~not enough
hurangan~lack
hurangi~reduce
hurbe~dangling
hurbe~decompose
hurbit~shake
hurbit~sign of movement
hureta~train
huria~congregation
huria~church congregation
huria~sect
huria~people
huriado~his church
huriam~your congregation
huriam~your people
huribak~tear it apart
hurimpu~I thought
hurimpu~I guess
hurimpu~I think
hurimpu~I thought
hurje~cattle
huroha~thereby
huroha~apparently
huroha~Actually
hurtik~touch
hurum~cheek
hurummi~your cheek
hurummu~your cheek
hurumna~her cheeks
hurung~brackets
hurungan~jail
hurungan~free hotel
hurungan~cage
hurungan~confinement
hurungan~prison
hurungan~free house
hurungan~jail
hurungan~cell
husalpuhon~I missed it
husalpuhon~I finished
husambo~there
hushus~fragrant
hushus~fragrant
hushus~fragrant
husip~whispered
husiphon~whisper
husor~shift
husor~turn
husuba~I'll try
husungkun~I asked
husurat~I wrote
huta~Banjar
huta~area
huta~village
huta~hamlet
huta~village
huta~residence
hutahu~my village
hutahu~my village
hutam~your village
hutam~your village
hutammu~your village
hutamu~your village
hutamu~your village
hutanda~I know
hutanda~I know
hutaon~I think
hutaonhon~I think
hutatap~I looked
hutatap~I looked
huting~cat
hutingkir~I visited
hutingkir~I'll visit
hutingkir~I see
hutingkir~I looked
hutingsa~puzzles
hutol~shake
hutol~shake
hutopar~I slapped him
hutopar~I pounded it
hutu~fleas
hutur~shake
hutur~shake
huulahon~I'll do it
huulahon~I do it
i~That
ia~if
ia~If
ia~if
ian~silent
ian~mukim
ian~save
ian~stay
ianakhon~child
ianakhon~biological children
ianakhon~bani
ianakhon~descendants
ianakhon~sons and daughters
ianggo~if
ias~clean
iashon~clean up
iba~I
iba~I
ibagas~in the
ibagass~in the
ibana~he
ibana~He
ibangun~built
ibebere~niece
ibebere~nephew
ibebere~niece
ibebere~nephew
iboto~you
iboto~sister
ibotohu~my brother
ibotohu~my sister
ibotom~your brother
ibotom~your sister
ibotomu~your brother
ibotomu~your sister
ibotona~his older brother
ibotona~his younger brother
ibotona~his little sister
ibotona~his older sister
ibotona~his brother
ibotona~his sister
iburu~jealous
iburuan~jealousy
icak~scoffed
ida~Look
ida~look
idalani~carried out
idaonhu~I see
idipaboa~notified
ido~muddy
ido~watery
ido~slimy
ido~is
ido~that's
ido~that's it
ido~moist
ido~ask for
idokkonin~said
idongani~accompanied
idunua~in this world
igiligil~addition
igit~semen
igit~sperm
igor~direct
igor~quick
igung~nose
igungna~his nose
ihdo~that's it
ihot~tie
ihotihot~binder
ihur~butt
ihur~tail
ihur~butt
ihurna~his butt
ihurna~the tail
ihurna~his ass
ihut~follow
ihuti~follow
ihuton~join in
ijabu~At home
ijabum~in your home
ijabuu~At home
ijo~green
ijuk~palm fiber
ila~Embarrassed
ilik~lizard
ilmu~knowledge
ilmu~knowledge
ilting~little
ilu~tears
iluna~her tears
ima~just that
ima~that's
ima~Wait
imah~that's
imah?~that's
iman~observe
iman~snoop
imatutu~amen
imatutu~that's it
imbang~second wife
imbang~honey
imbang~in accordance
imbang~equivalent
imbar~different
imbarna~the difference
imbaru~new
imbo~monkey
imbo~monkey
imbulu~hair
imbulu~smooth hair
imbur~grow up quickly
imbur~fertile
imbus~exhale
imbus~blow
impas~finished
impas~blank
impas~disappeared
impas~disappear
impas~extinct
impi~together
impi~gather
impi~complete
impol~want to
impol~one's own
impol~tempted
impola~core
impola~fill
impolana~the main thing is
impolana~its contents
imput~hair
ina~Mother
ina~woman
inahu~my mom
inaloan~resisted
inam~your mother
inamu~your mother
inana~her mother
inang~mother
inang~Mother
inang~biological mother
inang~mother
inang~mom
inang~Mama
inanghu~my mother
inanghu~my mother
inanghu~my mom
inanghu~my mom
inanginang~wife
inanginang~wife
inanginang~wife
inanginanghu~my wife
inangku~my mom
inangmi~your mother
inangmu~your mother
inangmu~your mother
inangmu~your mom
inangna~his mother
inangna~her mother
inangna~his mother
inangoi~Good grief
inangq~my mom
inata~our mother
inata~mothers
inata~the ladies
indada~No
indada~not
indada~No
indahan~rice
inding~move
inding~separate
indonesia~Indonesia
indonesia~Indonesian country
indonesiana~Indonesia
indung~parent
indung~hide
ingan~place
inganan~address
inganan~residence
inganan~place
inganan~residence
inggu~week
ingkat~tie
ingkat~run
ingkau~side dish
ingkau~side dishes
ingkau~vegetable
ingkon~must
ingkon~must
ingor~noisy
ingot~remember
ingotan~memory
ingothon~remind
ingotkon~remind
ingotma~Remember
ingoton~memory
ingott~remember
ingott!~remember
injam~borrow
innada~he said
inona~influence
inona~flavor
inong~mother
inong~Mother
inong~biological mother
inong~mother
inong~mom
inong~Mama
inonghu~my mother
inonghu~my mom
inonghu~my mom
inongmu~your mother
inongmu~your mother
inongmu~your mom
inongna~his mother
inongna~her mother
inongna~his mother
insak~reproach
insak~in front of
insaki~reproach
insaki~in front of
insir~rolling
insir~sweet potato
insir~slide
insir~creep
intan~diamond
intan~gemstone
intop~dead
intop~goes out
intophon~turn off
intophon~put it out
inu~gather
inuan~gathering
inum~drink
inumon~drink
inumonmi~your drink
inumonmu~your drink
ipaboa~notified
ipaboahin~notified
ipadenggan~repaired
ipakke~used
ipakke?~used
ipar~across
ipatarida~shown
ipataridahkon~shown
ipe~only just
ipe~just now
ipon~tooth
iponmi~your teeth
iponmu~your teeth
ipudi~behind
iran~just hurry up
iran~absurd
irdak~turmoil
irdak~motion
iring~accompaniment
iring~guide
iring~guide
iringi~accompany
iringi~guide
iringi~guide
irput~feel embarrassed
irput~hide
isara~like
isara~adjust oneself
isara~for example
ise~Who
isi~There is
isi~fill
isin~permission
isina~its contents
isinhon~allow
ison~here
isuang~wasteful
isuang~it's useless
itak~flour
itohu~my brother
itohu~my sister
itok~itok
itom~dark blue
itom~your brother
itom~your sister
itomi~your brother
itomi~your sister
itomu~your brother
itomu~your sister
itona~his brother
itona~his sister
iup~blow
iupon~blow
jabijabi~banyan
jabijabi~Banyan Tree
jabir~talk too much
jabir~talk too much
jabir~talkative
jabot~pinch
jabu~House
jabu~residence
jabu?~House
jabudo~his house
jabuhu~my house
jabukku~my house
jabuku~my house
jabum~your house
jabum?~your house
jabum???~your house
jabumi~your house
jabumu~your house
jabumu?~your house
jabuna~his house
jabuni~his house
jabunya~his house
jadi~So
jadihon~make it
jadijadian~creation
jadijadian~make it happen
jadina~so
jae~downstream
jaga~watch out
jaga~watch
jaga~keep
jaga~write
jaga~Wait
jaga~wait
jagal~meat
jagar~valuable
jagar~authoritative
jagar~respect
jagar~handsome
jago~Good
jago~brave
jago~great
jago~champion
jago~strong
jagoan~ace
jagoan~head thug
jagoan~Warrior
jaha~read
jahahon~read it
jahain~read it
jahana~read it
jahat~wicked
jahoba~Allah
jahoba~jahowa
jahoba~Lord
jais~off guard
jais~reckless
jait~sew
jakarta~Jakarta
jakarta~Jakarta city
jakhon~adoption
jakhon~accept
jala~And
jala~net
jala~net
jala~Then
jala~at a time
jala~as well as
jalak~Starling
jalak~search
jalak~starling
jalak~roam
jalaki~explore
jalang~handshake
jalang~wild
jalang~wild
jalang~region
jalang~regards
jalo~fast
jalo~direct
jalo~ask for
jalo~accept
jama~congregate
jama~do it
jama~hold
jama~touch
jamajama~work
jamajama~shoplifting
jamajama~hold on
jamajama~work
jamajama~likes to hold
jaman~era
jambak~jambak
jambar~part
jambar~dish
jambar~jambar
jambatan~bridge
jambi~jambi
jambi~Jambi city
jambu~guava
jambulan~hair
jamita~sermon
jamita~speech
jamot~watch out
jamot~Be careful
jamot~Be careful
jamotjamot~Be careful
jamotjamot~Be careful
jampor~Confused
jampor~dazed
jampurut~slave
jampurut~slave
jamu~jamu
janggejangge~untidy
janggola~jambak
jangkon~admit it
jangkon~ponder
jangkon~accept
janjela~window
janji~promise
jantan~male
jaotjaot~lost
japajapa~dazed
jarijari~finger
jarijari~fingers
jarum~needle
jaua~Java
jea~genitals
jea~reinforcements
jea~trouble
jea~disaster
jea~problem
jeam~your problem
jeamu~your problem
jeana~reply
jeana~the problem
jebu~exciting
jeges~Good
jeges~Good
jeges~beautiful
jejer~sort
jejeron~order
jekjek~naughty
jelok~pumpkin
jempek~short
jengeng~scary
jengjeng~naughty
jengkar~stocky
jengkar~handsome
jesus~jesus
jigil~stubborn
jigil~drunk
jimput~disappointed
jimput~discouraged
jinahen~made
jinak~benign
jingar~fierce
jingar~fierce
jingar~stubborn
jingar~drunk
jirir~sweet potato
jirir~termite
jo~Formerly
job~Job
job~finished
job~blank
job~sold out
jobang~trap
jobung~trapped
jobung~caught
jogal~pray for
jogal~hard
jogi~strong
jogi~strong
jogi~tough
jojak~footsteps
jojor~sequentially
jolaskan~explain
jollung~different
jollung~stand out
jolma~man
jolma~person
jolma~person
jolmana~the human
jolmana~the person
jolmasirabun~man
jolo~formerly
jolo~front
jolo~front
jolo~first
jolo~advance
jolo~previously
jolo~face
jolojolo~lobby
jolojolo~terrace
jolona~the front
jomak~achieve
jomat~respect
jomba~crooked
jomba~attack
jomba~pounced
jombeng~Confused
jombeng~surprised
jombing~bad
jombing~scary face
jombur~noisy
jombur~chaotic
jomburjombur~resistance
jomburjombur~battle
jomjam~fall down
jomjam~fell
jomjam~fell
jompok~short
jompok~short
jomput~take
jomput~haircut
jomput~grimy
jomput~pick up
jomuk~washing hands
jomuk~smooth
jomuk~simple
jomuran~clothesline
jonap~keris
jonap~knife
jonggi~big
jonggi~male buffalo
jonggi~strong
jonggi~bull
jonggi~Bulls
jonggol~chunk
jonggol~stump
jonggor~sharp gaze
jonggor~bright
jongir~cruel
jongir~cruel
jongir~scary
jongir~horrified
jongir~scary
jongirna~cruel
jongjong~stand
jongjong~self
jongjong~Do not change
jongkas~cunning
jongkas~hoax
jongkong~Block
jongkong~closed
jongong~stunned
jongong~silent
jongongjongong~Confused
jongongjongong~surprised
jongos~waiter
jongos~servant
jonjongi~set up
jonok~near
jonok~in front of
jonok~tight
jonokhon~bring it closer
jonoki~approach
jonokjonok~close
jonokjonok~meeting
jonong~fat
jop~valuable
jop~complete
jop~sold out
jora~sorry
jora~repent
jora~realize
jora~deterrent
jora~given up
jora~improve oneself
jora~repent
jorat~net
jorat~snare
jorat~binder
jorat~rope
jorbing~pulled over
jorbing~crooked
jorbut~dangerous
jorbut~bad
jorbut~Bad
jorbut~startling
jorbut~terrifying
jorbut~horrified
jorbut~looks scary
jorbut~uncouth
jorbut~sadistic
jorbut~scary
jorgang~rough
jorgong~snare
jorgong~trap
jorgong~stomach tightness
joring~jengkol
joro~couplet
joro~House
josua~Joshua
jotjot~often
jotjot~many times
jotjot~often
jotjot~always
jotjot~often
jou~call
jou~shout
jou~invite
joujou~call
joujou~calling
joujou~calling
joujou~invitation
jouon~calling
jua~dodge
jua~reject
juang~fight
juara~expert
juara~competent
juara~ace
juara~champion
juara~smart
juara~superior
juguk~Sit down
juguk~sit back
juguk~squat
jugul~Badung
jugul~wayward
jugul~stupid
jugul~robber
jugul~gnarly
jugul~wicked
jugul~persistent
jugul~stubborn
jugul~lasak
jugul~drunk
jugul~naughty
jugul~never give up
jugul~fussy
jugul~persistent
jugul~rancid
juhut~meat
juit~stupid
juit~ignorant
juit~proud
juju~point
juju~push
juju~tell me
jujui~point
jujui~push
jujui~tell me
jujung~sovereign
jujung~uphold
jujung~independent
jujung~independent
jujur~count
jujur~consideration
jukjuk~jolok
jukjuk~exceed
jukjuk~towering
jukjuk~stand out
jule~turn around
jule~back down
juli~July
juljul~arise
juljul~protrude
julu~upstream
julu~head up
julur~creep
juma~ricefield
jumadi~become
jumadihon~make
jumaga~supervise
jumaga~guard
jumaha~read
jumahana~read it
jumolo~late
jumolo~first
jumolo~first
jumolo~first
jumolo~front
jumolo~main
jumpa~can
jumpa~see you
jumpa~meet
jumpa~when
jumpa~arrived at
jumpa~time
jumpahon~see you
jumpang~meet
jumpang~can
jumpang~connect
jumpang~see you
jumpang~meet
jumpangan~see you
jumpangan~coincidentally met
jumpangan~meet
jumpanghon~see you
jumpanghon~meet
jumpangi~contact
jumpangi~meet
jumpangi~meet
jumpangmu~see you
jumpangmu~you're done
jumpangmu~achieved
jumpangna~see you
jumpangna~meet him
junggal~nervous
junggal~angry
jungjungan~leader
jungkat~wayward
jungkat~depraved
jungkat~cruel
jungkat~damn
jungkat~wicked
jungkat~rough
jungkat~cruel
jungkat~vile
jungkat~God damn it
jungkat~angry
jungkat~naughty
jungkat~dirty mind
jungkatna~its evil
jungkatna~cruel
jungking~God damn it
jungking~naughty
jungkitjungkit~pole
jungkitjungkit~protrude
juni~June
juo~semen
juo~sperm
jurangga~dog
jurbe~tend
jurbe~dangling
juruk~indented
justeru~precisely
jut~annoyed
jut~annoyed
jut~stunted
kabupaten~regency
kaen~cloth
kahitir~Afraid
kailna~the fishing rod
kalapa~coconut
kalapa~palm
kalas~class
kale~bro
kale~friend
kale~Friend
kalehu~my friend
kalehu~my best friend
kalehu~my friend
kalekale~collaborate
kalekale~guys
kalekale~friends
kalekale~buddy
kalekale~friends
kalem~your friend
kalem~your best friend
kalem~your friend
kalemu~your friend
kalena~his friend
kalena~his best friend
kalena~her friend
kaleng~can
kaliling~circulate
kaliling~around
kalimantan~Kalimantan
kalimantan~Kalimantan island
kaluar~go out
kaluargaku~my family
kambang~flower
kambang~expand
kambona~stem
kameja~shirt
kanji~starch
kantor~office
kapala~director
kapala~head
kapala~commander
kapala~leader
karas~tough
karejo~Work
karejodo~it works
karejohon~do it
karejohonma~do it
karejoi~work
karejoi~exercise
karejom~your work
karejomi~your work
karejomu~your work
karejona~it works
karejonang~it works
karejoni~it works
kareta~vehicle
kareta~train
kareta~motorcycle
kariting~curly
karosi~seat
karosi~chair
karsis~ticket
karsis~ticket
kassa~glass
kassa~lens
kato~brag
kato~chat
kato~chat
katoon~brag
katoon~bullshit
katua~superior
katua~chairman
katua~commander
kawanhu~my friend
kawanna~his friend
kawanni~his friend
kebal~immune
kedan~bro
kedan~friend
kedan~Friend
kedanhu~my friend
kedanhu~my best friend
kedanhu~my friend
kedanmu~your friend
kedanmu~your best friend
kedanmu~your friend
kedanna~his friend
kedanna~his best friend
kedanna~her friend
kejabu~to the house
keker~aim
kelamu~your son-in-law
kenalmu~your friend
khalak~person
kilo~kilo
kilo~scales
kising~candidate
kising~candidate
kobol~fat and full
kobol~plump
kobun~garden
kobun~field
kode~canteen
kode~shop
kode~grocery
kode~stall
kode~where to buy
kode~roadside stall
koji~intend
koji~like
koji~want
koji~Want to
koji~interest
koji~appetite
koji~Like
koji~appraise
kombang~blossom
kombang~expand
kombur~talk
kombur~brag
kombur~bullshit
kombur~competent
kombur~chat
kombur~chat
komburon~chat
komburon~chat
kompak~intimate
kongsi~share
kongsi~collective rights
kongsi~group
kongsi~coalition
kongsi~share
kongsi~gathering
kongsi~ally
kongsi~union
kongsi~company
kopi~coffee
koring~dry
korma~date
korma~dates
kota~city
kristen~Christian
kristen~Christian
kristus~Christ
kristus~jesus
kuburan~grave
kuburan~Liang Lahad
kuburan~grave
kudalani~I do it
kujabu~to the house
kuliling~around
kulit~skin
laba~avail
laba~To use
laba~profit
laba~profit
laba~benefit
laba~profit
laba~wages
labaklambak~base
labaklambak~pedestal
labana~the profit
labana~Fortunately
labang~nail
labas~satisfied
labas~open
labas~not closed
labashon~satisfy
labe~gentle
labe~flexible
labilabi~worm
labilabi~stomach worms
labilabi~little turtle
labu~gather
labu~gather
labuan~harbor
lada~coriander
lada~black pepper
ladang~garden
ladang~field
lae~brother-in-law
lae~sister's husband
laean~like
laean~Like
laga~fierce
laga~ravenous
laga~wrath
laga~lust
laga~appetite
laga~sharp
lagai~snapped
lagai~rebuked
lagai~scold
lagai~scold
lagak~Handsome
lagak~interesting
lagak~handsome
lagat~characteristic
lage~mat
lage~small mat
lagu~kind
lagu~kind
lagu~generous
lagut~gather
lahang~selfish
lahang~greedy
lahang~greedy
lahi~boy
lahi~man
laho~will
laho~will
laho~want to
laho~leave
laho~Want to
laho~dapper
laho~go
laho~For
lahoma~Go
lahona~he went
lahutan~booty
lailai~tail
lakku~in demand
lakku~selling
lakku~sold
lakkudo~do you?
lakkudo~he did
laklak~files
laklak~skin
laklak~tree bark
lala~destroyed
lala~late
lala~melt
lala~melt
lala~melted
lala~flavor
lalai~destroy it
lalai~melt it
lalang~livestock fertilizer found in pastures
lalap~abandoned
lalap~feel at home
lalap~negligent
lalap~forget
lalap~Busy
lalap~complacent
lalap~still
lalap~do not change
lalaplalap~busyness
lali~hawk
lalo~earthquake
lalo~earthquake
lalo~earthquake
lalu~until
lalu~already
lalun~joking
lalus~forgotten
lalus~follow
lam~especially
lam~increasingly
lam~increasingly
lam~the more
lam~plus
lam~moreover
lamak~flat
lamak~flat
lamak~roomy
lamak~wide
lamak~wide
lamak~flat
laman~gentle
laman~flat surface
lamanlaman~threshold
lambang~empty
lambas~roomy
lambas~wide
lambas~relieved
lambas~loose
lambas~wide
lambas~Be patient
lambat~slow
lambat~slow
lambat~slowly
lambok~cool
lambok~soft
lambok~gentle
lambok~gentle
lambok~soft
lambok~friendly
lambok~very shady
lambok~delicious
lambok~fresh
lambok~cool
lambung~near
lambung~edge
lambung~side
lambung~around
lambung~side
lambung~left out
lambung~neighbor
lambunghu~near me
lambunghu~near me
lambunghu~beside me
lambunghu~my neighbor
lambungna~nearby
lambungna~his neighbor
lamis~glow
lamis~sparkling
lamis~slippery
lamlam~tasteless
lamlam~bid
lamlamlamlam~dirt
lamlamlamlam~rubbish
lamma~especially
lamo~cool area
lamo~cool
lamo~cool
lamot~fine
lamot~mushy
lamot~gentle
lamot~slippery
lamot~crushed
lamot~soft
lamot~finely ground
lampak~petals
lampak~skin
lampak~rind
lampak~midrib
lampak~bandage
lampak~cover
lampang~distance
lampang~intermittently
lampang~seldom
lampas~Far
lampas~long
lampet~fast
lampis~ply
lampot~mushy
lampot~soft
lampu~lightly
lampu~light
lampu~light
lamu~increasingly
lamu~the more
lamuk~blend
lamuk~mix
lamuk~mixed up
lamuk~mix
lamun~Cook
lamun~ripe
lamun~pale
lamun~ripe
lan~whatever
lan~Lots
lan~many
lanang~wet
lanang~wash
lanang~puddle
landam~Lots
landas~flat
landas~take off
landas~flatten
landi~long
landit~slippery
lando~Far
lando~wide
lando~wide
lando~length
langa~blank
langa~quiet
langa~few residents
langa~quiet
langa~lonely
langan~pale
lange~swimming
langgak~strong
langgak~diligent
langge~mayhem
langge~a kind of taro
langge~torture
langit~space
langit~sky
langka~step
langkam~yourself
langkam~you
langkam~You
langkam~you
langkap~past
langkat~skin
langkat~rind
langkat~bran
langkat~tree skin
langke~destroyed
langke~melt
langke~melted
langkop~Lots
langkop~hug
langkop~valve
langkop~closed
langkopi~closed
langkopi~cover it
langkoplangkop~closing
langkuk~bent
langkuk~hunchback
langkuk~curve
langkup~obscene
langkup~have an affair
langkup~adultery
langkuponmu~your mistress
langlang~wilderness
langlang~wilderness
lango~tasteless
lango~bid
langsung~excursion
langsung~traveling
langsung~tour
langsung!~direct
langu~tasteless
langu~bid
lanja~bring
lanja~boyong
lanja~carry it
lanjama~bring it
lanjuttonon~continue
lanlan~Lots
lanok~fly
lanoklanokon~quiet
lanoklanokon~not selling well
lansang~roomy
lansang~wide
lansim~pointy
lansim~pointed
lansim~sharp
lansum~Lie
lansum~hoax
lantang~wide
lantang~roomy
lantang~wide
lantang~wide
lantas~safe
lantas~calm
lante~floor
lao~will
lao~want to
lao~Want to
lao~go
laoas~wide
laoas~wide
laok~mix
laok~join
laoma~Go
laon~long
laon~period
laon~time
laona~should
laona~he went
laonna~forever
laos~ignore
laos~etc
laos~likewise
laos~So
laos~precisely
laos~Then
laos~so
laos~past
laos~still
laos~still remain
laos~of course
laos~all
laos~as well as
laos~forgotten
laoshon~ignore
laoshon~miss it
lap~wipe
lap~wipe
lap~wipe
lapa~surgery
lapa~split
lapang~roomy
lapang~wide
lapat~meaning
lapat~Meaning
lapatan~meaning
lapatan~definition
lapatan~avail
lapatan~function
lapatan~To use
lapatan~meaning
lapatan~benefit
lapatan~synonym
lapatanan~translation
lapatani~interpret
lapatani~translate
lapatanna~It means
lapatanna~synonym
lapatanni~It means
lapati~interpret
lapati~care
lapati~interpretation
lapik~base
lapik~plate
laplap~finish it off
laplap~hit
laplap~ravenous
laplap~a huge amount
lapo~cafe
lapo~canteen
lapo~shop
lapo~stall
lapo~shop
lapo~roadside stall
lapuk~rotten
lapuk~weathered
lapuklapukon~worn
lapung~empty
lapung~blank
lapung~rice husks
lapungon~wandering
las~warm
las~hot
lasak~wayward
lasak~whip
lasak~mace
lasak~naughty
lasak~club
lasang~pray for
lasang~hard
lasang~glorious
lasiak~chilli
lasiak~chilli
lasiak~Lombok
lasinga~chilli
lata~seed
lata~seeds
lata~seedling
late~hate
late~jealous
late~spiteful
late~envy
late~angry
latelate~jealous
latelate~jealousy
lauman~booty
lauman~daydream
laut~sea
lea~despicable
lea~despicable dina
lea~Bad
lea~small
lea~vile
lea~cursing
lea~disgusting
leai~slander
leai~despicable
leai~blaspheme
leak~Act
leakmu~your behavior
leakna~his behavior
leamleam~buoyant
lean~give
leani~give
leanlean~giving
leanma~give
leap~threshold
leap~petty
leas~ignore
leas~indifferent
leas~take it lightly
leas~small
leas~glutinous
leas~look at it lightly
leas~trivial
leas~trivial
leas~not strong
leat~form
leat~appearance
lebaran~Eid
legan~stylish
legan~Cool
lehe~wrong
leheng~gnarly
leheng~character
leheng~stubborn
leheng~drunk
leheng~Act
leheng~character
lehengna~his character
lehengna~his behavior
lehengna~his character
lehet~Good
lehet~Good
lehet~Beautiful
lehet~beautiful
lehet~That's good
lehet~beautiful
lehet~Okay
lehet~patent
lehetdo~beautiful
lehetdo~beautiful
lehon~give
lehon~give
lehon~love
lehon~hand over
lehon~hand it over
lehonma~give
lehonma~give it up
lehononhu~I give
lehononhu~I give
lelah~tired
lelah???~tired
lele~Chase
lele~drive away
leleng~expired
leleng~long
leleng~chronic
leleng~annual
leleng~worn
lelengna~forever
lelengni~forever
lemba~slow
lemba~slow
lemba~off guard
lemes~fine
lemes~gentle
lemes~slippery
lemes~smooth
lemes~flat
lendes~neat road
lendes~flat road
lendes~flat
lenduk~bends easily
lenduk~slack
lenduk~flexible
lengen~fun
lengen~nice
lengenlengen~nice
lengenlengen~delicious
lengket~Good
lengket~Good
lengket~beautiful
lengket~neat
lengse~slaughter
lengse~perish
lengse~destroyed
lengse~destroyed
lengse~is lost
lengse~melt
lengse~disappeared
lengse~melted
lengse~disappear
lengse~extinct
lensem~quipped
lenset~dominoes
lentes~free
lentes~neat road
lentes~flat road
leoat~past
lepe~bent downwards
lepe~weak
lepe~limp
lepe~curved
lese~break even
lese~paid off
lese~finished
leselese~break even
lesem~quipped
leseng~scoffed
leseng~quipped
lesles~slippery
lete~Chase
lete~drive away
letes~slippery
letes~smooth
leung~is lost
leung~separated
lia~seldom
liang~bunker
liang~cave
liang~hallway
liang~hole
liang~tunnel
liat~chopped
liat~clay
liat~circumference
liat~corner
liat~around
liat~around
liat~all over
libas~o'clock
libaslibas~whip
libe~swap
libe~swap
libuk~dizziness
libuk~Dizzy
libur~holiday
liburan~holiday
liga~tiny
liga~Separate
liga~isolated
liga~separated
liga~knocked out
ligat~deft
ligat~agile
ligat~speeding
ligat~shrewd
ligat~agile
ligat~skilled
ligat~step on
ligat~agile
ligi~poll
ligi~check
lihi~thin
lihi~slim
lihi~slim
lihilihi~skinny
lihilihi~slim
lilian~attention
lilian~affected
lilis~leaking
lilis~dripping
lilis~leak
lilit~dressing
lilit~convoluted
lilit~the size of something
lilit~circle line
lilit~twist
lilu~wrong
lilu~lost
lilu~wrong way
lilu~wrong way
lilu~wrong step
lilu~heretical
lilung~talk
lilung~say
lima~five
lima~five
lima~five
limpot~perish
limpot~destroyed
limpot~fall
limus~slippery
limut~algae
limut~mold
limut~moss
limutlimuton~ancient
limutlimuton~very old
linang~luster
linang~series
lindak~shiny
lindak~sparkling
lindak~shaken
lindang~disabled
lindang~moral defects
lindang~blackened
lindang~stain
lindang~Wrong
lindi~added
linduat~twins
linduat~twin
lindung~protect
lindung~heretical
linggas~Good
linggom~shade
linggom~shady
linggoman~protection
lingkang~exfoliate
lingkang~timeless
lingkang~free
lingkang~escape
lingkit~skin
lingkup~scope
lingkup~closed
lingling~Far
lingling~lonely
lino~lightning
linop~splash
linop~is lost
linop~disappear
linop~sink
linsin~slippery
linsin~smooth
linsing~whip
linsing~sabet
linsinglinsing~whip tool
linsinglinsing~whips
linsinglinsing~whip
linsinglinsing~whip
lintap~wet
lintap~wash
lintom~dark
lintom~is lost
lintom~black
lintom~disappeared
lintom~disappear
lintong~pool
lintong~lake
lintun~blurry
lintun~run
lintun~run away
lintun~scrambled
lintun~lost
lipat~whip
lipat~o'clock
lipatlipat~whips
lipatlipat~whip
lipe~made up
lipe~wrong
lipe~violate the regulations
lipe~false
lipe~Wrong
lipe~misplaced
liplip~thrown away
liplip~removed
liplip~tiny
lipung~clean
lipung~pure
lipung~holy
lisop~immerse
lisop~sunk
litap~wet
litap~wash
litok~cloudy
liung~in
loak~stupid
loak~very stupid
loak~stupid
loak~stupid
loak~stupid
loakon~ignorance
loas~let
loas~can
loas~allow
loas~allow
loba~bee
loba~honey
loba~a kind of wood
loba~wasp
lobangon~toothless
lobi~more
lobi~remainder
lobian~excessive
lobian~except
lobian~exception
lobilobi~excess
lobilobi~more so
lobilobi~waste
lobilobi~remains
lobong~club
lobong~o'clock
lobong~one seed
lobu~village
lobu~village
lobu~pig pen
lobu~cattle pen
lobung~public road
lobung~open
logam~stunned
logam~a state of fear
logam~metal
login~pandan
login~a kind of pandan
logo~bright
logo~hot weather
logo~drought
logo~subsided
logu~song rhythm
logu~song
logu~melody
logu~sing
logu~song
loguhon~sing
loguna~the song
loha~split
loha~broken
loha~overhaul
lohot~sticky
lohot~sticky
lohot~attached
lohot~glue
lohuklohuk~sense
lohuklohuk~curved
lohuklohuk~deception
loja~achieved
loja~tired
loja~exhausted
loja~toil
loja~my efforts
loja~tired
loja~inert
loja~sluggish
loja~tired
loja~tired
loja?~tired
loja???~tired
lojaaaa~tired
lojaaaaa~tired
lojam~you achieved
lojam~you're tired
lojam~you're tired
lojami~you achieved
lojami~you're tired
lojami~you're tired
lojamu~you achieved
lojamu~you're tired
lojamu~you're tired
lojana~achieve it
lojana~he's tired
lojana~tired
lojong~Chase
lojong~run
lojong~race
lojong~next
lojong~uber
lok~Up to you
lokma~up to you
lola~hindered
lola~disturb
lola~hinder
lola~stop
lola~obstacle
lola~disturbed
lolang~Confused
lolang~dazed
lolangon~Confused
lolap~dark
lolap~heavy
lolo~Enough
lolo~present
lolo~desire
lolo~surrounded
lolo~gather
lolo~discussion
lolo~meeting
loloan~audience
loloan~party
loloan~meeting
lolong~eye
lolos~forgetfulness
lolos~negligent
lolos~forget
lolos~complacent
lolot~long
lom0m~you like
lomak~heavy
lomak~fat
lomak~lush
lomak~fresh
lomak~fertile
lomang~lemang
lombang~canyon
lombang~steep cliff
lombanglombang~canyon
lombanglombang~ditch
lombu~ox
lombu~cow
lombut~whip
lombut~o'clock
lomlom~dark
lomlom~black
lommoni~like it
lomo~please
lomo~like
lomo~diligent
lomo~want to
lomo~like
lomo~Like
lomo~appraise
lomolomom~as you like
lomolomom~your likes
lomom~as you like
lomom~you like
lomomma~you like it
lomomu~you like
lomomuma~you like it
lomona~as he pleases
lomona~like it
lomoni~like it
lomos~undecided
lomos~worried
lomos~nervous
lomos~wobbly
lomos~flustered
lomos~worry
lomos~hesitant
lomos~Afraid
lompa~Cook
lompaan~Cook
lompalompa~cooking
lompalompa~Cook
lompalompana~his food
lompan~side dish
lompan~side dishes
lompanna~the side dish
lompas~struggling
lompas~attack
lompas~pounced
lompo~outrageous
lompo~past
lompo~Extraordinary
lompo~over the scale
lomuk~soft
lomuk~lightly
lomuk~benign
lomuk~mushy
lomuk~soft
lomuk~easy
lonap~immerse
lonap~blind
lonap~overflow
lonap~overflowing
lonap~sunk
londuk~bends easily
londuk~slack
londuk~flexible
londut~a bit low
londut~curved
londut~valley
londut~bay
longa~almost full
longa~not enough
longa~absent minded
longa~half
longa~too little
longa~not full
longa~incomplete
longa~grain plants
longa~sesame
longang~wonderful
longang~Confused
longang~stunned
longang~amazed
longang~impressed
longang~longo
longang~gape
longang~amazed
longgi~torture
longing~sound
longing~quiet
longing~silent
longit~not enough
longkang~duku
longkang~easy to come off
longkang~exfoliate
longkang~timeless
longkang~free
longkang~not sticky
longkot~attached
longkot~sticky
longlang~stop
longlang~not quite enough
longlang~abandoned
longo~sounds far away
longo~quiet
longo~quiet
longolongo~wilderness
longolongo~very quiet
longolongoan~lonely
loni~many times
loni~time
loni~often
lonjan~squishy
lonjan~beat it
lonjan~hit
lonjan~step on
lonjan~lunge
lonjan~oppressive
lonong~shipwrecked
lonong~disappear
lonong~sink
lonong~sunk
lonong~down
lonop~immerse
lonsam~amount
lonsam~total
lonsam~volume
lonsop~sunk
lontik~chisel
lontik~carve
lonu~wet
lonu~wash
lopak~white
lopap~o'clock
lopap~boxing
lopas~free
lopashon~let go
lope~free
lopeng~beat it
lopeng~o'clock
lopengi~beat
lopes~sarong
lopes~men's sarong
lopeslopes~sarong
lopi~cloth
lopi~clothes
lopok~seed
lopok~graft it
lopok~need
lopok~seedling
lopok~main
lopus~direct
lopus~until
losam~immerse
losok~reluctant
losok~slow
losok~slow
losok~lazy
losok~pessimistic
losung~mortar
lotak~sleepy
lotak~knock
lotak~lotak
lotak~club
lotak~o'clock
lotak~tone sign
lotak~smack
lotak~tokok
lotaklotak~wood
lotaklotak~truncheon
lotik~his chisel
loting~match
loting~macis
lotlot~step on
lotlot~step on
lotong~catfish
lotuk~knock
lua~run
lua~free
luangon~Unlucky
luat~area
luat~area
luat~location
luat~Medan
luat~country
luat~place
luat~region
lubaklubak~sewage
lubaklubak~puddle
lubaklubak~ditch
lubang~lahad
lubang~burrow
lubang~hole
lubis~lubis
lubis~lubis clan
lubuk~deep
luga~paddle
luga~pedal
luga~work
luga~work
luga~income
luga~income
lugahon~paddle
lugahon~paddle
lugahon~pedal
lugahon~pedal it
luha~wound
luhung~canyon
luhung~valley
luhut~together
luhut~gather
luhut~all over
luhut~all
luhut~all of you
luhutan~file
luhutan~tie
luhutan~heap
luhutan~stack
luhutna~all of them
luhutna~entirely
luka~wound
lukka~wound
lukluk~tangled
lulu~metamorphose
lulu~search
lulu~change skin
lulu~demand reply
lulu~change shape
lului~search
lului~look for it
lului~swatch
lului~track
luluima~look for it
lulululu~wonder
lulululu~looking around
lulululu~searching
lulululu~looking around
lumaholaho~move
lumamglumamg~orphan
lumanglumang~orphan
lumapatlapat~sway
lumba~racing
lumba~hurry
lumba~Chase
lumba~race
lumba~next
lumba~match
lumba~uber
lumbalumba~announcement
lumbalumba~warning
lumban~area
lumban~village
lumban~hamlet
lumban~village
lumban~settlement
lumban~village
lumbang~roomy
lumbang~relieved
lumbang~loose
lumbang~too loose
lumbung~seldom
lumbung~barn
lumegatlegat~tired
lumegatlegat~graceful
lumlam~mixed together
lumlam~chaotic
lumlam~complicated
lumlam~irregular
lumobi~more
lumobi~moreover
lumok~fat
lumoubi~moreover
lumpu~paralysed
lumpus~free
lumpus~escape
lunak~mushy
lunda~merchandise
lunda~wasteful
lunda~damaged
lunda~split
lundu~plant child
lundu~sprouts
lundu~shoots
lundu~shoots
lung~natural
lung~space
lung~horizon
lung~universe
lungguk~community group
lungguk~collected
lungguk~stacked
lungkang~roomy
lungkang~loose
lungkang~wide
lungkas~free
lungking~free
lungkinghon~let go
lungun~silent
lungun~Miss
lungun~heartbreak
lungun~heartbreak
lungun~quiet
lungun~sad
lungun~Miss
lungun~sad
lungun~silent
lungun~quiet
lungun~lonely
lungunan~lonely
lungunan~silence
lungunan~alone
lungunlungunan~lonely
lungunmu~your sad
lungunna~sadly
lunjung~oval
lunjung~elongated
lunjung~longitudinal
lunsang~shake
lunsur~slide
luntak~mud
luntur~fade
lupahon~forget it
lupahonon~forget it
luslus~warm it up
luslus~body tissue
luslus~dry
luslus~roast
luso~wash
lusoi~wash
luti~cork
lutung~Chase
ma~lah
maap~Sorry
maaphon~sorry
mabakbak~peeled off
mabalu~widowed
mabalu~widowed
mabanggahon~proud
mabaor~drifting away
mabaor~flow
mabarbar~peeled off
mabe~Cook
mabe~ripe
mabe~long
mabiar~shrunk
mabiar~worry
mabiar~Afraid
mabiar!~Afraid
mabiar!!~Afraid
mabiara~Afraid
mabiardo~afraid
mabiarr~Afraid
mabiarrr~Afraid
mabikbik~torn apart
mabikbik~ripped
mabikbik~torn
mabikbik~peeled off
mabikbik~torn
mabola~halve
mabola~broken
mabola~split
mabuk~sad
mabuk~in a hurry
mabuk~Hurry up
mabuk~drunk
mabuk~vomit
mabuk~dizziness
mabuk~Dizzy
maburbar~untidy
maburbar~damaged
maburju~make amends
maccim~salty
macim~salty
madabu~fall
madalani~undergo
madangadang~going around
madangadang~adventuring
madangadang~wandering around
madangadang~wander
madekdek~fall
madekdek~shed
madekdek~fell
mademut~weathered
maderder~liquid
maderder~destroyed
maderder~melt
maderder~melt
madetuk~sluggish
madingin~gentle
madingin~pleasant
madoado~wander
madoado~homeless
madoado~living in limbo
madoado~live to and fro
madoado~wander
madongan~be friends
madongan?~be friends
madongani~accompany
madsudna~It means
maduma~prosperous results
maduma~prosperous
maduma~established
maduma~prosperous
maduma~self-sufficient
madungoi~wake
maen~play
maenhon~play
maeput~Embarrassed
maesa~suffer
maesa~feeling sick
maesa~groaning in pain
maga~big
maga~Maha
maga~glorious
maganjang~elongated
magashon~split
magege~tired
magege~running out of energy
magege~tired
magege~exhausting
magege~crushing
magete~shredding
magete~crumble
magete~ripped
magete~old
magete~worn
magetem~weathered
maghatcitti~hurt
magigi~hate to
magigi~disgusting
magigi~fed up
magigi~horrified
magigi~dislike
maginsu~betray
mago~end
mago~is lost
mago~disappeared
mago~disappear
mago~make a loss
mago~lost
magodang~multiply
magodang~getting bigger
magodang~mature
magodang~dirty
magohon~eliminate
magona~loss
magopa~crushed
magopa~hit
magopo~unlucky
magopo~what a loss
magopo~wasteful
magopo~it's useless
magopo~vain
magopu~destroyed
magopu~tidy up your heart
magopu~crumble
magopu~crushed
magopu~wrecked
magorgor~light up
magotap~disconnected
mahae~Sick
mahal~seldom
mahal~rare
mahap~bored
mahap~bored
mahap~very full
mahap~fed up
mahap~satisfied
mahap~Too full
mahatahin~said
mahataon~say
maheu~tired
maheu~withered
maheu~weak
maheu~sluggish
maheu~sluggish
maheu~exhausting
maheu~tiring
maheu~miserable
maheu~sad face
mahiang~dry
mahiang~dry up
mahilolong~postpone
mahilolong~cancel
mahir~neat
mahir~sweet
mahua~What is it
mahua~Why
mahua~Why
maila~Embarrassed
maila?~Embarrassed
mailama~be embarrassed
mailanama~be embarrassed
maimaima~earth
maimaima~waiting
maimaima~looking forward
maimaima~hope
maimaima~wait
main~play
maingol~deaf
maingol~deaf
maingot~remember
maisais~sway
maisais~wobbly
maisais~tumble down
maisorang~silent
maisorang~hitchhiking
majago~be good
majal~bored
majal~fed up
majal~blunt
majoajo~in
majop~nice
majop~proper
majop~delicious
maju~succeed
maju~develop
maju~increase
maju~road
maju~proceed
maju~increase
maka~so
makana~so
makarejohon~do
makkadalani~undergo
makkalupahon~forget
makkarejoi~do
makmak~rule
makmak~manners
mala~philanthrope
mala~serve
mala~generous
mala~likes to give
malaklak~fall
malaklak~peeling
malaklak~peeled off
malal~nervous
malal~worried
malal~uncomfortable
malala~Hurt
malala~liquid
malala~destroyed
malala~devastated
malala~destroyed
malala~melted
malala~melt
malala~melt
malambut~Beautiful
malambut~beautiful
malamun~boil
malamun~Cook
malamun~ripe
malamun~ripe
malangke~destroyed
malangke~destroyed
malangke~slack
malangke~damaged
malangsung~taking place
malapalap~rest
malapalap~living in limbo
malapalap~languish
malapalap~poor
malaria~malaria
malaslas~thinning
malaslas~dent
malaslas~stepped on
malate~get jealous
malau~even
malau~Malau clan
malau~a kind of lime
malbangalbang~saggy
malbangalbang~very loose
male~malnutrition
male~hungry
malela~steel
malelo~steel
malhang~tired
malhang~tired
maliklik~peeling
malilung~speak
malilung~said
malilung~speak
malilung~affection
malim~priest
malim~malim
malim~navigator
malim~pious person
malitap~wet
malitap~wash
malluga~row
mallumpat~jump
malo~expert
malo~competent
malo~brained
malo~competent
malo~intelligent
malo~fluent
malo~proficient
malo~smart
malo~skilled
malo~clever
malo~skilled
malonggi~battered
malonggi~crushed
malongit~reduce
malongit~shrink
malongit~recede
malongkang~peeling
maloplop~sink
malu~Embarrassed
malua~free
malua~collapse
malua~concluded
malua~speak out loud
malua~dislodged
malua~free
malua~get away
malua~escape
malua~go up
malua~sidi
malua~date
maluak~wound
maluak~peeling
maluaon~release
maluha~hole
maluha~wounded
maluha~perish
maluha~destroyed
maluha~damaged
malum~cold
malum~recover
malum~healed
malumma~chill
malumma~recover
malumma~get well
malungkas~collapse
malungun~wish
malungun~sad
malungun~miss
malungun?~sad
malungunn~sad
mamaaphon~forgive
mamadai~scold
mamadai~scolded
mamahan~look after
mamahani~look after
mamahe~get dressed
mamahe~use
mamahoni~pay off
mamahoni~repay
mamahoni~pay
mamak~developed
mamak~roomy
mamak~wide
mamak~slippery
mamak~spread out evenly
mamaksa~force
mamaksa~instruct
mamalang~withhold
mamalang~hinder
mamale~getting more painful
mamale~hit
mamale~beat
mamalos~repay
mamalpal~bastard
mamalpal~bald
mamalu~play
mamalu~hammering
mamalu~sound
mamalu~hit
mamalu~fire a rifle
mamalu~blow
mamalumhon~cure
mamalut~bandage
mamalut~wrap
mamampehon~wearing
mamampehon~elevate
mamandang~see
mamandang~looking
mamandang~appreciate something
mamandang~evaluate
mamandap~only
mamandap~only
mamandap~just
mamandap~time
mamangan~eat
mamanggar~praise
mamanggil~call
mamanghulingi~rebuked
mamanghulingi~ask to talk
mamanghulingi~greet
mamangke~play
mamangke~use
mamangke~utilise
mamangke~wearing
mamangke~use
mamangkulingi~rebuked
mamangkulingi~ask to talk
mamangkulingi~greet
mamanotnoti~looking
mamansang~install
mamansang~establish
mamansur~shower
mamansur~gush
mamansur~install the showerhead
mamansur~flow
mamardekahon~liberate
mamarengkeli~laugh
mamarengkeli~laugh
mamarenta~Reign
mamarentahon~instruct
mamareso~edit
mamareso~pay attention
mamareso~inspect
mamareso~examine
mamareso~correct
mamareso~investigate
mamaritahon~preach
mamaritahon~announce
mamartida~argue
mamasak~hit
mamasang~install
mamasu~wash
mamasuki~enter
mamasuki~inhabit
mamasumasu~bless
mamatamatahon~spy
mamatamatahon~observe
mamatamatahon~supervise
mamatehon~turn off
mamatos~start
mamatos~start
mamaut~tie
mambabai~Study
mambabai~patronizing
mambabo~weed
mambaboi~weed
mambaboi~weed
mambagas~deep
mambagi~share
mambagi~give
mambagihon~give
mambagihon~distribute
mambahen~make
mambahen~make
mambahen~treat
mambahen~stage
mambahensa~make it
mambakbak~let go
mambalanjoi~finance
mambalanjoi~live
mambalbal~bulldoze
mambalbal~slamming
mambalbal~hit
mambalbal~slap
mambalbal~hit me
mambalbal~dreadlocks
mambalikhon~reverse
mambalos~repay
mambalut~wrapped around
mambalut~bandage
mambalut~wrap
mambandit~pickpocket
mambandit~steal
mambaorhon~throw away
mambaorhon~immersive
mambaritahon~preach
mambaritahon~report
mambaritahon~broadcast
mambarobo~steal
mambasbas~hit
mambasbas~hit
mambasbas~slash
mambasu~clean
mambasu~wash
mambebe~twist
mambebe~daub
mambebe~twist
mambebe~pinch
mambebe~squeezing
mambege~hear
mambegehon~listen
mambegesa~heard it
mambereng~see
mambereng~looking
mambereng~look
mamberengi~looking
mambias~hate
mambingkashon~cause
mambirambir~hanging loose
mambirambir~wobbly
mambirambir~ungkangangkit
mamboan~bring
mamboan~bring
mamboan~lift
mamboan~steal
mamboan~carry
mamboan~entrust
mambobanhon~charge
mambobanhon~divert
mambokhon~bring
mambola~split
mambollangi~glared
mambolonghon~throw away
mambolonghon~throw away
mambolonghon~divorce his wife
mambolonghon~eject
mambolus~through
mambolus~pass
mambonarhon~justify
mambongbong~hold
mambongbong~withhold
mambongoti~enter
mambongoti~inhabit
mambongoti~leave
mambongoti~wait
mambonsirhon~cause
mamborgat~unplug
mamborhos~bandage
mamborhos~wrap
mamborontak~rebel
mamborot~tether
mamborot~pawn
mamborot~tie
mamborot~ensnare
mamboto~know
mambuat~make
mambuat~make
mambuat~annex
mambuat~take
mambuat~reach
mambuha~open
mambuha~strip off
mambuha~reveal
mambuhul~determine
mambuhul~agreed
mambuhuli~determine
mambuhuli~agreed
mambungkus~wrap
mambunu~kill
mambur~scattered
mambur~scattered
mambur~is lost
mambur~disappear
mambur~wasted
mambur~wasted
mamburai~cursed
mamburai~scolded
mamburai~curse
mamburai~curse
mamburju~improved
mamburlak~chase away
mamburta~evict
mamburta~chase away
mambutbut~unplug
mameak~lay down
mameak~put
mameakhon~put
mameakhon~lay down
mameakhon~put
mameakhon~lay down
mameakhon~lay down
mameakon~put
mameamhon~play
mamegang~hold
mamekhon~pay attention
mamekhon~care about something
mamekhon~take it to heart
mamekhon~ignore
mamekhon~heed
mamele~give offerings
mamele~present the meal
mamele~serve
mamelehon~present
mamelenghon~pampering
mamengkai~reluctant
mameop~hold
mameop~withhold
mameop~take it to heart
mameop~keep
mameos~wrapped around
mameos~entangle yourself
mamereng~see
mamereng~look
mamereng~staring
mamerper~sway
mamersep~dry up
mamerutmerut~decrease
mamerutmerut~alone
mamerutmerut~back off
mamerutmerut~message
mamial~castrate
mamial~pinch
mamiara~look after
mamiari~winnow
mamiaro~look after
mamiaro~nurturing
mamiding~tilted
mamiding~pulled over
mamikkir~think
mamikkir~think
mamikkir~weigh
mamikkirhon~think about
mamikkiri~be aware
mamikkiri~analyze
mamikkiri~considering something
mamikkiri~contemplating
mamikul~shoulder
mamilang~said
mamilang~count
mamilit~get out of the way
mamilit~intersection
mamillit~sort
mamillit~choose
mamillit~selecting
mamillit~sort
mamiltik~fell scattered
mamiltik~whip
mamiltik~pick
mamiltik~tiptoe
mamiltik~flick
mamiltik~scattered
mamilting~A little
maminggir~pulled over
mamingot~remember
maminjilhon~alienate
maminsang~scold
maminsang~advise
maminsang~rebuked
maminsang~punish
maminta~request
maminta~submit
maminta~covet
mamintor~direct
mamintorhon~straighten out
mamintorhon~justify
mamintori~confirmed
mamintori~justify
mamio~call
mamio~deploy
mamio~invite to eat
mamis~danger
mamisat~run over
mamisat~squeeze
mamisat~squeeze
mamisat~pinch
mamisat~pressing off
mamisat~squash
mamisat~squeezing
mamisikhon~cut
mamita~choose
mamitik~small
mamitik~separate yourself
mamitik~alone
mamiu~twist
mamiu~spinning
mamodai~advise
mamodai~teaching
mamodai~teach someone
mamodal~Lie
mamodal~grasp
mamodal~squeezing
mamodui~slanderous
mamodui~blasphemous
mamogang~hold
mamogo~cheating
mamogo~did not convey
mamohohon~whirling
mamohohon~twist
mamohul~Lie
mamohul~clenched
mamohul~grasp
mamoinghon~pampering
mamola~split
mamolat~limiting
mamolat~separate
mamolin~clean
mamolin~pure
mamolin~genuine
mamollat~beat
mamollat~step on
mamolngit~quiet
mamolngit~very quiet
mamolus~flow
mamolus~through
mamolus~pass
mamolus~crossed
mamolus~flow
mamolut~release
mamolut~decide
mamompani~advise
mamompar~hereditary
mamompar~get offspring
mamondang~glow
mamonggol~decapitate
mamonggol~cut
mamongoti~enter
mamongoti~inhabit
mamonsahon~solve
mamopar~many descendants
mamopar~count
mamopashon~finish
mamora~rich
mamora~prosperous
mamora~established
mamorangi~combat
mamorangi~fight
mamorluhon~need
mamorluhon~need
mamoro~blush
mamoro~squeeze
mamorong~buy up
mamorong~withhold
mamorong~contract
mamorsan~shoulder
mamorsan~shoulder
mamorsan~bear
mamorso~lie
mamorso~fib
mamorso~say no
mamorso~deny
mamorso~deny
mamorut~unplug
mamotong~cut
mamotong~slaughter
mampaboa~telling you
mampaboahon~tell
mampadenggan~repair
mampanghulingi~greet
mampangkur~hoe
mampar~scatter
mampar~lost
mampar~stranded
mampar~spread
mampar~scattered
mampar~scattered
mampar~lost
mamparadehon~prepare
mamparateatehon~consider
mamparateatehon~pay attention
mamparateatehon~notice
mamparateatehon~listening
mamparbagabagahon~depend on
mamparbuehon~produce
mamparbuehon~produce
mamparburjui~repair
mampargogo~strengthen
mampargogoi~strengthen
mampargomos~strengthen
mamparhaseanghon~utilise
mampariama~harvest
mamparlakkuhon~treat
mamparrohahon~care
mamparrohahon~pay attention
mamparrohahon~guard
mamparsalahon~blame
mamparsiajari~learn
mamparsoada~deny
mampatarhon~explain
mampatehon~ensure
mampikkir~think
mampilsakhon~squirt
mamporseahon~trust
mamporseahon~convincing
mampuna~have
mamuanghon~throw away
mamuanghon~alienate
mamuashon~satisfying
mamudun~dress up
mamudun~tie
mamudun~intertwine
mamudun~connect
mamudun~concluded
mamuhai~open
mamuhai~start
mamuhai~precede
mamuhul~throw
mamuhul~ensure
mamuhul~determine
mamuhul~set
mamuhung~circular
mamuhung~bow
mamuhung~hugging knees
mamuhung~punch
mamuje~kill
mamuje~stabbed
mamuji~praise
mamujuk~persuade
mamulik~step aside
mamulik~separate
mamulikhon~separate
mamullang~erupted
mamullang~inflate
mamulos~twist
mamulos~spinning
mamulos~roll
mamulos~pinch
mamulsikhon~emit
mamulung~gather
mamulung~mix
mamulung~gathering
mamulut~mouth
mamulut~glue
mamulut~glue
mamunggingi~watching
mamunggingi~back
mamungka~build
mamungka~open
mamungka~start
mamungka~start
mamungkap~reveal
mamungkul~hit
mamungkus~wrap
mamunjung~isolate yourself
mamunjung~exclude
mamunjung~alone
mamunjunghon~isolate
mamunokhon~twist
mamunokhon~boisterous
mamuntarhon~solve
mamuntasi~solve
mamunten~evaluate
mamunu~kill
mamunui~kill
mamupusi~took his clothes
mamupusi~plunder
mamurai~cursed
mamurai~curse
mamurai~curse
mamuri~wash
mamuri~wash
mamurimuri~wash
mamuringkir~observe
mamuringkir~visit
mamurnas~strengthen
mamurnas~refreshing
mamurpurhon~blow
mamursihi~spit
mamursihi~insulting
mamursunghon~dump
mamursunghon~drop
mamuru~hunt
mamuru~hunt
mamusa~kill
mamusa~excruciating
mamusui~combat
mamusui~hostile
mamutik~pick
mamutor~curved
mamutor~twist
mamutor~bend
mamutput~unplug
mana~watch out
mana~Be careful
mana~Be careful
mana~step aside
mana~pulled over
mana~make up
mana~write
manaba~cut down
manabati~detain someone
manabati~obstruct
manabati~hinder
manabati~hinder
manabur~sow
manabur~croaked
manaburhon~sprinkle
manaburhon~pour out
manaburhon~spread
manaburhon~shed
manaburhon~scattered
manada~kick someone
manada~pounding
manadalani~undergo
manadinghon~leave
manaek~climb
manaek~uphill
manaeki~climb up
managa~is
managam~earth
managam~waiting
managam~looking forward
managam~hope
managam~wait
managamhon~expect
managi~share
managi~charge
managi~addictive
managi~become normal
managi~become addicted
managihon~share
managihon~distribute
managihon~share
managihon~addictive
managil~cut down
managion~charge
managuk~accept
manaha~split
manaha~splitting wood
manaha~cut
manaha~impact
manahan~withhold
manahar~buy
manahar~stem
manahar~add
manahatang~only
manahatang~only
manahatang~alone
manahatang~without additions
manahil~decapitate
manahil~cut
manahil~tighten
manahit~light up
manahiti~hurt
manaili~see
manaili~glance
manaili~looking
manaili~look
manaili~turned around
manailihon~look at
manailihon~looking
manailii~looking
manair~interesting
manair~scatter
manair~jerked
manair~stretch
manait~interesting
manait~jerked
manaksihon~watched
manala~guilty
manala~wrong
manalahon~blame him
manalahon~avoid something
manalahon~deny
manalahon~deny
manalahon~blame
manalahon~deny
manalai~violate
manalentes~free
manalentes~roomy
manalentes~freely
manalentes~open
manaletes~slippery
manalha~split
manalha~ascending
manali~tie
manalik~slanderous
manalik~mock
manalik~make fun of
manalin~wearing something
manalin~replace
manalin~changing clothes
manalipon~call
manallik~beheading
manallik~scold
manallik~slash
manallik~cut
manallik~slash
manalongkap~nose piercing
manalongkap~stuffy
manalongkap~very smelly
manalongkap~sharp smell
manalpokhon~break
manalpokhon~solve
manalpuhon~overstep
manalpuhon~exaggerate
manalpuhon~pass
manalpuhon~skip
manalpui~through
manalpui~surpass
manalpui~exaggerate
manalpui~pass
manalta~scold
manalta~hit
manalta~chop
manaluhon~defeat
manaluksuk~soar
manaluksuk~increase
manalushon~forget
manalushon~refused
manalushon~get rid of
manalushon~reject
manamba~add
manambahon~add
manambai~added something
manambai~multiply
manambai~add
manambai~add
manambai~double
manambat~rope
manambat~tether
manambat~tie
manamboli~cut
manamboli~slaughter
manambu~add
manambut~welcome
manami~request
manami~submit
manamihon~present
manamihon~offerings
manampar~hit
manampar~slap
manampar~dismissed
manampar~reject
manampathon~throw
manampathon~throw away
manampathon~dump
manampathon~blow away
manampehon~put
manampiar~cruel
manampiar~bringas
manampiar~fierce
manampiar~crying loudly
manampiar~roared
manampul~scold
manampul~decapitate
manampul~cut
manampung~jump
manamuei~visit
manamuei~entertain
mananda~confess
mananda~know
mananda~know
manandahon~signify
manandahon~introduce
manandangi~visit
manang~alias
manang~What
manang~is
manang~or
manang~goods
manang~perhaps
manang~who knows
manangani~handle
manangani~manage
manangani~look after
mananggalhon~release
mananggalhon~uninstall
mananggo~cut
mananggung~bear
mananggung~ensure
manangi~hear
manangiang~plead
manangiang~pray
manangianghon~plead
manangianghon~pray
manangiangkon~pray
manangihon~listen
manangihon~listening
mananginangi~join in and listen
mananginangi~listen
mananginangi~listen
mananginangi~eavesdrop
manangisi~lament
manangkar~feeding
manangkar~look after
manangkasi~clarify
manangkasi~confirm
manangkasi~explain
manangkasi~investigate
manangking~carry
manangkingi~stop
manangkingi~rest
manangko~purloin
manangko~steal
manangko~pay attention
manangko~shoplifting
manangko~pointing
manangko~rob
manangkup~catch
manangkup~reach
manangkup~summarize
manangma~Who knows
manangpe~whatever
manangpe~or
manangsi~determine
manangsi~set
manangsi~confiscate
manangtang~release
mananomhon~bury
mananomhon~buried
mananomhon~plant
mananomhon~embed
mananomhon~bury
manantan~lower
manaon~withhold
manaon~bear
manaon~suffer
manaon~feel
manaoni~set a trap
manaoni~catch
manaoni~bait
manaoni~ensnare
manapol~tie
manaporhon~solve
manapsap~cut
manaptap~wash
manaptap~wash
manapu~clean
manapu~pick
manapu~quote
manapu~sweep
manaputi~wrap
manarahon~sweep
manarai~sweep
manaram~take care of yourself
manaram~introspective
manaram~thought
manaram~worried
manarangsang~catch
manarangsang~pounce
manarangsang~attack
manarat~interesting
manarat~drag
manarbut~jerked
manarbut~plunder
manarbuti~unplug
manarehon~prepare
manarehon~looking up
manarehon~accommodate
manarehon~ready to accept
manarei~accommodate
manarei~accept
manariashon~justify
manariashon~prove the case
manariashon~announce
manarihon~pay attention
manarihon~think about
manarihon~caring
manarihon~care
manarihon~protect
manarihon~look after
manarik~straighten out
manarik~interesting
manarima~divide
manarima~give
manarimangi~ponder
manaring~sift
manaring~selecting
manaringothon~talk about
manaringoti~remind
manaringoti~touch on
manaripari~cross
manarita~suffering
manarita~disappointed
manarita~regret
manarita~regret
manarita~persecuted
manaritahon~disappointing
manariur~glow
manaroso~pounce
manaroso~attack
manarsar~fell in pieces
manarsar~flower
manarsar~open
manaru~deliver
manaruhon~drop
manaruhon~deliver
manaruhon~deliver
manarungkap~tell
manarungkap~announce
manarungkap~disclose
manasi~plead
manasi~worship
manat~watch out
manat~carefully
manat~Be careful
manat~Be careful
manat~slow
manat~slow
manat~slowly
manat~thoroughly
manat~thorough
manat~write
manat~alert
manatahon~state
manatap~looking into the distance
manatap~looking
manatap~staring
manatap~look
manatapi~looking
manatmanat~alon-alon
manatmanat~Be careful
manatmanat~Be careful
manatmanat~slowly
manatmanat~alert
manatmanat~worried
manatoi~rebuked
manatoi~tease
manboan~bring
manburi~wash
manciptahon~create
mandabu~throw away
mandabuhon~drop
mandadang~sunbathe
mandadang~heat
mandadang~illuminate
mandadap~look for
mandadap~stuttering
mandadap~sneak in
mandadap~fingering
mandadap~reached in
mandaek~pick up
mandaek~gather
mandagakdagak~oppose
mandagakdagak~argue
mandagakdagak~challenge
mandagakdagak~arguing
mandagakdagak~deny
mandagakdagak~refute
mandaho~accuse
mandaho~darken
mandaho~cheat
mandaho~accuse
mandahop~hug
mandahop~hug
mandahop~embrace
mandai~taste
mandai~tasting
mandai~try the taste
mandai~enjoy
mandai~feel
mandai~feel
mandaik~gather
mandaik~collect laundry
mandakdak~hit it out
mandakdak~subtract
mandakdak~nodding
mandakdak~reject
mandalanhon~launch
mandalanhon~carry out
mandalanhon~practice
mandalanhon~operate
mandalani~go through
mandalani~experience
mandalani~visit
mandalani~undergo
mandalani~feel
mandalanin~undergo
mandamosi~accompany
mandamosi~close it tightly
mandampol~prick
mandampol~massage
mandampol~sort
mandandan~braiding
mandandan~intertwine
mandao~avoid
mandao~avoid
mandao~move aside
mandao~spared
mandaodao~step aside
mandaodao~avoid
mandaodao~keep far
mandaodao~inferior
mandaohon~distance
mandaon~used to
mandaoni~treat
mandapot~lucky
mandapot~obtain
mandapot~reach
mandapot~get
mandapothon~to
mandapothon~get
mandapothon~meet
mandapothon~visit
mandapothon~approaching
mandapothon~encounter
mandar~sarong
mandaramhon~depend on
mandaramhon~budget
mandaramhon~just because
mandasdas~invite
mandasdas~move
mandasdas~encouraging
mandasdasi~recommend
mandasdasi~ordered
mandasing~measure
mandasing~weigh
mandatang~come
mandatang~happen
mandatdati~do it continuously
mandatdati~continue
mandatdati~repeat
mandatdati~persistent
mandege~visit
mandege~stand
mandege~step on
mandege~step on
mandege~visit
mandekdekhon~drop
mandekdeki~falling
mandelam~seduce
mandembal~hit
mandembal~step on
mandembal~pounding
mandengari~dodge
mandengkar~parry
mandengkar~prevent
mandengkar~dodge
mandera~flag
mandida~see
mandidi~bathe
mandidi~baptize
mandidi~bathe
mandidi~sidi
mandilat~lick
mandilo~look at
mandilo~looking
mandilo~review
mandilo~visit
mandilo~smile
mandiloi~looking
mandiori~track
mandiori~look for
mandodo~guess
mandodo~guess
mandodo~guess
mandodo~measure
mandodo~dive in
mandogildogil~massaging
mandogildogil~sort
mandogildogil~wringing
mandohar~obtain
mandohoti~role
mandohoti~attend
mandohoti~follow
mandohoti~obey
mandohoti~participation
mandohung~old
mandoit~stings
mandok~speak
mandok~to
mandok~say
mandok~arrive in
mandok~about
mandokhon~said
mandokhon~instruct
mandokhon~invite
mandokhon~say
mandokhon~say
mandokhon~recommend
mandokhon~mention
mandokhon~ordered
mandoltuk~hit
mandoltuk~knock
mandoltuk~knock
mandompakhon~looking away
mandompakhon~direct
mandompakhon~redirect to
mandompakhon~facing
mandompakhon~confront
mandompakhon~turned around
mandongani~accompany
mandongani~accompany
mandongani~accompany
mandongani~holding hands
mandongani~molest
mandongani~join
mandonganni~accompany
mandopan~facing
mandopang~endure
mandopang~against the enemy
mandopang~combat
mandopang~face
mandophon~consider
mandophon~cover
mandophon~feel
mandorong~pounce
mandosdos~flat
mandosdos~boring
mandosdos~equally
mandosdos~monotonous
mandosdos~flat surface
mandosdos~does not vary
mandosdosi~equalize
mandosdosi~level
manduda~pounding
manduduk~gather
manduduk~collect laundry
mandudurhon~waste
mandudurhon~throw away
mandudus~falling
mandudus~abort a child
manduga~guess
manduga~think
manduhut~grazing
manduhuti~clearing grass
manduhuti~revoke the grass
manduhuti~weed
manduhuti~weed
mandulo~visit
mandulo~mourn
mandulo~visit
mandulo~inspect
mandulo~look
mandulo~visit
mandulo~look
mandulo~review
mandulo~visit
mandulo~stop by
mandulo~smile
mandulodulo~take a look
mandulodulo~check it out
mandulodulo~review
mandulodulo~smile
manduma~rich
mandungkir~dig
mandungkir~pry
mandungkol~prevent falls
mandungkol~hinder
mandungkol~sustain
mandungkol~support
mandungo~build
mandungohon~wake
mandur~foreman
mandur~supervisor
mandurung~looked up
mandurung~catch
mandurung~fishing
mandurung~net
mandusdus~motivating
mandusdus~urge
mandusdus~push
mandusdus~exhale
mandusdus~promote
mandusdus~turn on
manea~aiming the rifle
manea~considering the weight
manea~lift
manea~measure
manea~weigh
manean~handle
manean~take responsibility
manean~carry
manean~inherit
maneat~cut
maneat~slit
maneat~slice
maneat~butchery
maneat~slashing
maneat~slaughter
maneat~stoned
manedek~request
manedek~plead
manedek~submit
manegai~endanger
manegai~break up
manegai~steal
manegai~rummaging around
manegai~damage
manege~winnow
manehe~request
manehe~submit
manehenehe~beg
manehenehe~beg
manehenehe~plead
manehenehe~beg
manektek~dripping
manenganenga~impress
manenganenga~show off superiority
manenganenga~demonstrate
manenggen~withhold
manenggeng~withhold
manengger~aiming
manengger~want
manengger~desire something
manengsang~cancel
manengsang~stop
manengsang~unplug
manengsang~abolish
manerak~sow
manerakhon~sprinkle
manerbeng~take looks
manerbeng~glance
manerenerehon~give
manerenerehon~gift something
manerge~caring
manerge~care
manerge~ignore
manerge~feel
manergehon~feel
manesa~forgive
manesa~delete
manesahon~abolish
manetek~dripping
manetekhon~dripping
mangabak~succeed
mangabakhon~produce
mangabara~forgive
mangabara~shoulder to shoulder
mangabara~forgive
mangabathon~obstruct
mangabati~obstruct
mangabati~hinder
mangabia~replace
mangabuk~force
mangabuk~urge
mangabuk~in a hurry
mangabul~repay
mangabul~avenge
mangabul~demanding revenge
mangaburhon~sprinkle
mangaburhon~scatter
mangaburhon~scattered
mangadangi~around
mangadangi~wandering around
mangadangi~surround
mangadangi~explore
mangadangi~cruise
mangadap~facing
mangadimpuhon~gather
mangadoi~look for
mangadonghon~stage
mangadop~meet
mangadop~facing
mangadophon~confront
mangadopi~meet
mangadopi~face
mangadopi~attend
mangadu~race
mangadu~withhold
mangadu~chase
mangadu~herding livestock
mangadu~chasing
mangadu~follow
mangaduk~repair
mangae~suffer
mangae~feel
mangae~feeling sick
mangaehon~feel
mangaei~feel
mangagahon~hope will
mangagahon~proud
mangagahon~put trust
mangagak~appraise
mangagak~guess
mangagalagal~curled up
mangagalagal~circular
mangagalagal~twisted
mangagam~think
mangagam~guess
mangagam~thought
mangago~waste
mangago~harm
mangago~harm
mangago~outwit
mangago~destroy
mangago~disappear
mangago~cheat
mangago~troublesome
mangago~ruin
mangagohon~remove
mangagohon~troublesome
mangaha~Why
mangahai~why
mangahap~experience
mangahap~feel
mangahap~feel
mangahaphon~feel
mangahit~gather
mangahon~bring
mangahon~bring
mangahon~deliver
mangahuhon~want
mangahut~take
mangahut~steal
mangahut~scooped up
mangahuti~take
mangain~adopt
mangain~lift
mangain~lifting a child
mangait~interesting
mangait~hook
mangaithon~interesting
mangaithon~hook
mangaithon~get it
mangajar~practice
mangajar~build
mangajar~educate
mangajar~teach
mangajari~educate
mangajari~teaching
mangajuk~lie
mangajuk~cheat
mangajuk~dive in
mangakatidahon~show
mangakuhon~confess
mangalaalai~dispel
mangalabashon~satisfying
mangalagai~snapped
mangalagai~rebuked
mangalagai~nagging
mangalagu~seduce
mangalagu~clever at seducing
mangalahuti~plunder
mangalai~dispel
mangalala~melt
mangalala~melt
mangalala~destroy
mangalalapi~neglect
mangalaluhon~awaken
mangalaluhon~punish
mangalaluhon~give rise to
mangalalushon~Act
mangalalushon~neglect
mangalalushon~forget
mangalampahi~give skin
mangalampahi~wrap
mangalampahi~tie
mangalandak~sour
mangalandak~tidy up
mangalandak~arrange
mangalangka~step
mangalangkap~pass
mangalangkopi~close
mangalangkopi~cover
mangalangsung~traveling
mangalanja~bring
mangalanja~bring
mangalanja~shoulder
mangalansap~exaggerate
mangalansap~cheat
mangalansap~misleading
mangalansum~strolling
mangalansum~travel
mangalansum~traveling
mangalansum~cheat
mangalansung~traveling
mangalantap~Lots
mangalantap~widespread
mangalantap~accumulated a lot
mangalaoshon~skip
mangalaoshon~ignore
mangalaoshon~convey
mangalaosi~through
mangalaosi~surpass
mangalaosi~violate
mangalaosi~pass
mangalaosi~traverse
mangalaosina~go through it
mangalaosina~cross it
mangalap~take
mangalap~wipe
mangalap~delete
mangalap~Rub
mangalap~pick up
mangalapa~dissect
mangalapa~split
mangalapathon~utilise
mangalapathon~interpret
mangalapathon~use
mangalapathon~translate
mangalapati~caring
mangalapati~care
mangalapati~interpret
mangalapati~define
mangalapati~interpret
mangalapi~call
mangalapi~pick up
mangalapi?~pick up
mangalasak~hit
mangalasak~whipping
mangalasak~swish
mangalat~looked around him
mangalat~spy
mangalat~pay attention
mangalat~observe
mangalatang~chase
mangalatei~cheating
mangalatei~left
mangalathon~pay attention
mangalathon~observing
mangalathon~supervise
mangalaum~rob
mangalaum~plunder
mangalbang~hit
mangalbang~take a lot
mangalbashon~blow away
mangaleai~cursed
mangaleai~slanderous
mangaleai~insulting
mangaleai~blasphemous
mangaleai~insulting
mangalean~give
mangalean~give
mangalehon~give
mangalehon~give
mangalehon~present
mangalehon~grant
mangalehon~deliver
mangalele~chase
mangalele~chase away
mangalelei~chase
mangalelei~chase away
mangalembut~hit
mangalenahon~neglect
mangalendes~clean
mangalengsehon~obliterate
mangalengsehon~destroy
mangalengsehon~destroy
mangalengsehon~destroy
mangalengsehon~abolish
mangalensem~sweet-mouthed
mangalensem~lie
mangalensem~persuade
mangalensem~make fun of
mangalensem~Sweet mouth
mangalesan~mocking
mangalesan~railed
mangalesan~scoffed
mangalesan~insulting
mangalesehon~pay off
mangalesehon~pay off
mangalesehon~forgive
mangalesehon~abolish
mangalesehon~finish
mangalesem~persuade
mangalesem~make fun of
mangalesem~seduce
mangalesengi~scoffed
mangalesengi~make fun of
mangalete~chase
mangalete~chase away
mangaletgot~bent
mangalgip~devour
mangalgip~swallow
mangalgip~swallow whole
mangalgip~swallow something
mangalgip~undermine
mangaliat~around
mangalibas~hit
mangalibas~hit
mangaliga~differentiate
mangaliga~separate
mangaliga~alienate
mangaliga~isolate
mangaliga~get rid of
mangaligi~see
mangaligi~looking
mangaligi~inspect
mangaligi~look
mangaligi~visit
mangaligi~explore
mangaligii~looking
mangalii~replace
mangalilingi~inspect
mangalilingi~investigate
mangalilit~wrapped around
mangalilit~circular
mangalilit~bandage
mangalilit~twisted
mangalilit~hug
mangalilit~tie
mangaliliti~bandage
mangaliliti~wrap
mangaliliti~tie
mangalimangi~count
mangalimbe~telling you
mangalimbehon~tell
mangalimbehon~announce
mangalimbehon~show
mangalindihon~add
mangalinggomi~protect
mangalinggomi~shade
mangalingkang~peeling
mangalipat~whip
mangalipat~hit
mangalipat~whipping
mangalisathon~flattened
mangalisathon~step on
mangalisathon~crushing
mangalisik~hit
mangalit~turn
mangalit~wrapped around
mangalit~circular
mangalithon~winding
mangalithon~divert
mangalithon~wearing
mangaliun~twisting
mangaliun~roll
mangaliun~become chaotic
mangaliun~complicated
mangallang~eat
mangallang~enjoy
mangallung~bring
mangallung~shoulder
mangalo~disobedient
mangalo~hostile
mangalo~rebel
mangalo~oppose
mangalo~defiant
mangalo~rebel
mangalo~combat
mangalo~challenge
mangalo~against
mangaloas~let
mangaloas~allow
mangaloas~allow
mangaloashon~let
mangaloashon~allow
mangaloashon~allow
mangalobii~exceed
mangaloga~separate
mangaloha~split
mangaloha~break
mangaloha~remodel
mangalohai~unpack
mangalohai~solve
mangalohai~smash
mangalohai~tear down
mangalojahon~exhausting
mangalojahon~fag
mangalojai~exhausting
mangalojai~makes you tired
mangalojai~makes you tired
mangalojai~complicate things
mangalojong~race
mangalojong~chase
mangalojong~chasing
mangalojong~follow
mangalola~bother
mangalola~hinder
mangalola~hinder
mangalolai~disturbing
mangalolai~obstruct
mangalolai~hinder
mangalombut~hit
mangalombut~whipping
mangalomohon~want
mangalomohon~like it
mangalomoi~covet
mangalomoi~like
mangalompa~cook
mangalompas~penetrate
mangalompas~pounce
mangalompas~stab
mangalompas~attack
mangalompas~struggling
mangalompit~fold
mangalompit~multiply
mangalongai~reduce
mangalongangi~amazing
mangalongangi~admire
mangalonjan~crashing
mangalonjan~squash
mangalonjan~beat
mangalonjan~hit
mangalonjan~step on
mangalonjan~oppressive
mangalopalop~plead
mangalopeng~hit
mangalopeng~beat
mangalopi~plead
mangaloplophon~enter
mangaloplophon~penetrate
mangaloplophon~through
mangaloplophon~stabbed
mangaloplophon~poke your finger
mangalopushon~carry out
mangalopushon~continue
mangalopushon~keep on coming
mangalotak~bounce
mangalotak~hit
mangalotak~knock
mangalotak~crush
mangalotak~menokok
mangalotlot~step on
mangalotlot~stamping his feet
mangalotlot~step on
mangalotuk~knock
mangalsip~suck
mangalsip~suck
mangalu~report
mangalu~complain
mangalua~eloping
mangalua~let go
mangaluahon~run
mangaluahon~release
mangaluahon~take away
mangaluahon~freeing
mangalualu~report
mangalualu~complain
mangalualu~sue
mangaluga~row
mangaluga~pedaling
mangalugahon~row
mangalugahon~rowing
mangalugahon~pedaling
mangalugahon~pedal
mangaluhuti~gather
mangaluluhon~repay
mangaluluhon~revenge
mangaluluhon~demand revenge
mangaluluhon~avenge
mangalului~track
mangalului~look for
mangalumba~race
mangalumba~chase
mangalumba~chasing
mangalumba~follow
mangalumbahon~give a warning
mangalumbahon~tell something
mangalumbahon~remind
mangalumpat~jump
mangalunggukhon~pile
mangalunggukhon~gather
mangalunggukhon~pile up
mangalungkas~freeing
mangalungkas~open
mangalungking~release
mangalupahon~neglect
mangalupahon~forget
mangalupahonsa~forget it
mangalus~answer
mangalusi~replied
mangaluslus~grilling
mangaluslus~dry
mangaluslus~warm
mangalusoi~wash
mangalut~massage
mangalut~sort
mangalutung~chase
mangambalhon~throw
mangambalhon~dump
mangambalhon~divert
mangambalhon~swing
mangambalhon~wiggle
mangambalhon~blow away
mangambalhon~exaggerate
mangambang~guess
mangambang~expand
mangambang~think
mangambang~thought
mangambat~block
mangambat~transverse
mangambat~withhold
mangambat~prevent
mangambat~ban
mangambat~blocking
mangambat~obstruct
mangambat~hinder
mangambilhon~bring
mangambilhon~invite
mangambit~carry
mangambolongkon~throw away
mangambulhon~depend on
mangambur~jump
mangamin~forgive
mangamin~forgive people
mangamin~defend
mangamin~support
mangamini~forgive
mangamini~defend
mangamini~support
mangaminkan~confirmed
mangaminkan~confirm
mangamoamo~hold
mangamoamo~treat
mangamoti~protect
mangamparhon~scatter
mangampehon~put
mangampini~protect
mangampini~forgive
mangampini~defend
mangampot~tie
mangampotampoti~treat
mangampu~carry
mangampu~answer
mangampu~welcome
mangamudihon~turning the steering wheel
mangamudihon~driving
mangamudihon~operate
mangan~Eat
mangana~take a look
mangana~overseen
mangana~lurking
mangana~waiting for something
manganaana~supervise
manganabung~What
manganabung~cut
manganabung~shave
manganabung~bald
manganahon~observe
manganahon~supervise
manganamnam~tasting
manganamnam~feel
manganangkohi~climb up
manganangkohi~climb
mangandarhon~announce
mangandarhon~elaborate
mangande~give up
mangandehon~deliver
mangandoshon~report
mangandoshon~convey
mangandulhon~divert
mangandung~hum
mangandung~cry
mangandung~lamented
mangandunghon~lament
mangandungi~cry over
mangandungi~lament
manganggarhon~proud
mangangguk~cry
mangangguk~scream
mangangguk~whimpering
manganggun~swing
manganggun~shake
manganggunanggun~left behind
mangangkali~deceptive
mangangkali~cheat
mangangkat~escape
mangangkat~jump
mangangkat~skip
mangangkat~soaring
mangangkat~jack
mangangku~confess
mangangkui~confess
mangangkup~balanced
mangangkup~similar
mangangkupi~help
mangangkupi~support
mangangkupi~accompany
mangangkupi~join
mangangkur~jump
mangangor~heat
mangangor~influence
mangangor~give rise to
manganhon~eat
manganing~wait
manganjak~soaring
manganjak~jumping up and down
manganjak~dance
manganjak~step on
manganju~be patient
manganju~be merciful
manganju~be patient
manganju~be patient
manganju~understand
manganju~forgive
manganju~understand
manganju~understand
manganju~caress
manganju~tolerant
manganjurhon~recommend
manganjurhon~recommend
manganna~eat it
manganon~eat this
manganon~food
mangansi~pretend
mangansi~being hypocritical
mangansi~cheat
mangansi~hypocritical
mangantak~consider
mangantak~guess
mangantan~appraise
mangantan~guess
mangantan~consider
mangantan~weigh
mangantan~considering
mangantar~deliver
mangantarhon~deliver
mangantarhon~accompanying guests
mangantarhon~announce
mangantarhon~celebrate
mangantik~hit
mangantikhon~test
manganto~imagine
manganto~pay attention
manganto~guess
manganto~understand
manganto~guard
mangantoi~caring
mangantoi~care
mangantoi~meddle
mangantoi~rebuked
mangantoi~do
mangantoi~pay attention
mangantoi~greet
mangantuk~hit
manganturehon~pay attention
manganturehon~caring
manganturehon~care
manganturehon~ignore
manganturehon~manage
mangantusi~understand
mangantusi~understand
mangantusi~understand
mangantusima~please understand
manganungnung~reprimand someone
manganungnung~remind
mangaor~stir
mangaor~writhing
mangaor~brew
mangaor~croaked
mangaor~equally
mangaoti~surround
mangaoti~visit
mangaoti~explore
mangaoti~explore
mangapas~slanderous
mangapas~insulting
mangapas~insulting
mangapian~jealousy
mangapian~want
mangapil~Study
mangapil~memorize
mangapoapoi~motivate
mangapoapoi~push
mangapoapoi~rebuked
mangapoapoi~encouraging
mangapoi~persuade
mangapoi~motivate
mangapoi~push
mangapoi~rebuked
mangapoi~entertain
mangapoi~encouraging
mangaponaponi~advise
mangapul~entertain
mangapuli~entertain
mangapuli~entertain people
mangapus~wipe
mangapus~Rub
mangapus~wipe
mangapusi~clean
mangapusi~delete
mangapusi~Rub
mangara~invite
mangara~inviting
mangaraba~evacuate
mangarade~willing
mangarade~ready
mangarade~getting ready
mangarade~standby
mangarade~ready
mangarade~it's ready
mangaradehon~serve
mangaradehon~tidy up
mangaradehon~provide
mangaradehon~prepare
mangaradehon~give up
mangaradothon~guard
mangaradoti~obey
mangaradoti~look after
mangaradoti~pay attention
mangaradoti~persevere
mangaradoti~supervise
mangaradoti~manage
mangaradoti~guard
mangaradoti~listening
mangaradoti~keep
mangaradoti~nurse
mangaraga~sift
mangaraga~filter
mangarahon~invite
mangarahon~ask to go
mangarahut~tie
mangarahut~piggyback
mangaraja~title
mangarajai~protect
mangarajai~protect
mangarajai~control
mangarajumi~appraise
mangarajumi~consider
mangarajumi~count
mangarajumi~weigh
mangarajumi~thought
mangarajumi~ponder
mangarajumi~ponder
mangarambas~chop
mangarambas~slash
mangarambis~nudge
mangarambis~touch
mangarambis~touch on
mangarambus~scratch
mangarambus~jerked
mangaramoti~protect
mangaramoti~look after
mangaramoti~pay attention
mangaramoti~supervise
mangaramoti~guard
mangaramoti~keep it intact
mangaramping~let go
mangaramping~disconnect
mangarampinghon~release
mangarampinghon~decide
mangarampinghon~strip off
mangarampus~annex
mangarampus~pointing
mangarampus~plunder
mangarampus~seize
mangaran~unclear
mangaran~tangled
mangaran~complicated
mangaran~mazy
mangaran~irregular
mangaranap~looking
mangaranap~review
mangaranap~contemplating
mangaranap~smile
mangaranapi~ponder
mangarangguthon~hug
mangarangguthon~wrestling
mangarangguthon~jerked
mangarangguthon~snatch
mangarangrangi~discuss
mangarangrangi~talk about
mangarangrangi~designing
mangarangrangi~close up
mangaraphon~expect
mangarapothon~talk about
mangarapothon~close up
mangarapothon~negotiate
mangarapus~hold
mangararang~forbid
mangararang~scold
mangararati~develop
mangararati~increase
mangararati~continue
mangararati~spread
mangarasai~count
mangarasai~think
mangarasohon~feel
mangardang~sing
mangardang~hum
mangareap~Flying
mangareap~fly
mangarege~sway
mangarege~shaking
mangarege~sift
mangarehe~scoffed
mangarehe~make fun
mangarehei~teased
mangarehei~insult someone
mangarehei~sneered
mangarehei~scoffed
mangarehei~taunt
mangarehei~mock
mangarehei~solitary
mangarempe~exhausting
mangarempe~tiring
mangarentahon~equalize
mangariboriboi~bother
mangariboriboi~hinder
mangarihon~own
mangarihonmu~have you
mangarimang~appraise
mangarimang~evaluate
mangarimang~weigh
mangarimangi~think about
mangarimangi~analyze
mangarimangi~remind
mangarimangi~regret
mangarimangi~listening
mangarimpu~think
mangarimpu~guess
mangarimpu~think
mangarimpu~thought
mangarimpun~gather
mangarimpun~conclude
mangarindanghon~prove
mangaringkothon~important
mangaringkothon~need
mangarintak~jerked
mangarintak~plunder
mangarirhon~sprinkle
mangarirhon~scatter
mangaririt~apply
mangaririt~choose
mangaririt~propose
mangaririt~look for
mangarisa~discuss
mangarisa~consider
mangarisa~deliberate
mangarisa~weigh
mangarisihi~discuss
mangarisihi~investigate
mangarisrishon~sprinkle
mangarjang~jump over
mangarjang~jump
mangarjang~soaring
mangarjari~teaching
mangaroboroboi~entertain
mangarodihon~Reign
mangarodihon~ordered
mangarogang~hold
mangarogong~hold
mangaroi~attend
mangarompak~attack
mangarondanghon~announce
mangaronggos~urge
mangaronggos~busy
mangaronron~attack
mangaronron~be noisy
mangarontan~caused
mangarontan~influential
mangarontan~left an impression
mangarontik~pioneering
mangarontik~start
mangarontik~pioneering
mangaronton~castrate
mangarop~hope
mangarop~hope
mangarophon~expect
mangaropukhon~solve
mangaropukhon~crushing
mangaroro~crash
mangaroro~raid
mangaroro~grabbed
mangaroro~ambush
mangaroro~sorce
mangarorot~nurturing
mangarorot~carry
mangarorot~nurse
mangarosahi~break
mangarosahi~damage
mangarosak~damage
mangarpe~circular
mangarrungganghon~drop
mangarsak~sigh
mangarsak~troublesome
mangarsakhon~think about
mangarsakhon~bear
mangarsakhon~feel
mangarsakhon~unsettling
mangarti~understand
mangarti~understand
mangarti~obedient
mangartihon~utilise
mangartihon~interpret
mangartihon~use
mangarubuhon~give orders
mangarubuhon~Reign
mangaruguthon~throw
mangaruguthon~throw away
mangaruguthon~dump
mangarujak~slash
mangarujak~stabbed
mangarujak~stab
mangarumpa~work together
mangarumpa~mutual cooperation
mangarumpa~help
mangarumpak~broken
mangarumpak~collapsed
mangarumpak~collapse
mangarunding~count
mangarunding~think
mangarunding~fortune telling
mangarundung~throw away
mangarundung~dump
mangarungkari~awaken
mangarungkari~emit
mangarungkari~bringing up
mangarungrung~release
mangarur~put
mangarur~pay attention
mangarur~guess
mangarurus~abort
mangarurus~drop
mangarurus~threshing
mangarurut~interesting
mangarurut~pull out
mangarurut~unplug
mangarus~guess
mangarusrus~throw away
mangarusrus~dump
mangarusuk~spear
mangarusuk~stab
mangarut~unpack
mangarut~massage
mangarut~pickpocket
mangarut~steal
mangarut~sort
mangarutrut~unplug
mangasahon~budget
mangasahon~budget something
mangasahon~use
mangasam~estimate prices
mangasam~evaluate
mangasanghon~proud
mangasanghon~depend on
mangasanghon~favor
mangasangi~oppose
mangasangi~challenge
mangasangi~rival
mangasapi~challenge
mangasapi~invite
mangasapi~inciting
mangasar~give birth
mangasar~looking for a nest
mangasar~come to the nest
mangasi~make elbows
mangasi~love
mangaso~rest
mangaso~rest
mangasta~insulting
mangasta~belittle
mangastui~understand
mangasunghon~slanderous
mangasunghon~scolded
mangasunghon~accuse
mangasungi~slanderous
mangasungi~scolded
mangasungi~accuse
mangasupi~threaten
mangasupi~swear
mangasupi~curse
mangasupi~make fun of
mangatahi~talk about
mangatasi~exceed
mangatasi~overcome
mangate~brave
mangatim~get
mangatim~borrow
mangatim~get
mangatim~enjoy
mangatup~dare to face
mangatup~prepare
mangatup~gathering
mangatupi~prepare
mangatupi~concocting betel
mangatur~sour
mangatur~arrange
mangatur~arrange
mangatur~compile
mangatureon~repair
mangauhon~take it to heart
mangauhon~take
mangauhon~agree
mangauhon~agree
mangauhon~plunder
mangaus~cheat
mangaus~rob
mangdingani~occupy
mangeahi~meet
mangeahi~chase
mangeahi~encounter
mangeahi~welcome
mangeahi~follow
mangeak~chase
mangeaki~chase
mangeaki~follow
mangebati~come
mangebati~visit
mangedung~praise
mangedung~appreciate something
mangehet~parrot
mangehet~scoffed
mangehet~copy
mangehet~bad-mouthing
mangela~persuade
mangela~influence
mangela~tempt
mangelek~persuade
mangelek~plead
mangelek~seduce
mangelesi~scoffed
mangelesi~belittle
mangellem~persuade
mangellem~seduce
mangemahon~protect
mangempor~steal
mangendat~interesting
mangendat~suck
mangendat~suck
mangendehon~sing
mangenges~nudge
mangengger~monitor
mangengger~aiming
mangengger~aiming
mangengger~lurking
mangensengensengi~prepare hot
mangensengensengi~challenge
mangensengensengi~annoying
mangentei~surpass
mangentei~exceed
mangentei~overcome
mangentei~outperform
mangeol~stylish
mangeol~sway
mangeol~walk around
mangeolngeol~shake
mangepes~look down on
mangepes~railed
mangepes~belittle
mangetnanget~Be careful
mangetong~appraise
mangetong~count
mangetong~add
mangeur~divert
mangga~mango
manggabusi~lie
manggabusi~deny
manggabusi~cheating
manggabusi~lie
manggabusi~outwit
manggadis~peddling
manggadis~sell
manggaga~stubborn
manggaga~oppose
manggaga~proud
manggaga~full of oneself
manggagai~oppose
manggagai~challenge
manggagai~deny
manggalang~support
manggalang~serving a banquet
manggalang~entertain a meal
manggalang~support
manggalang~donate
manggalas~buy
manggalas~find a job
manggalas~glass
manggalege~damage
manggalgal~oppose
manggalgal~against
manggalmit~pick
manggalmit~pinch
manggamal~hold
manggana~frozen
manggana~form
manggana~make
manggana~create
manggana~forge
manggana~carve
mangganahon~create
mangganda~add
manggandahon~double
manggandahon~reproduce
manggandahon~add
manggandahon~double
manggandeng~holding hands
manggang~haughty
manggang~arrogant
manggang~proud
manggang~arrogant
mangganggu~bother
mangganggu~annoying
mangganggu~tease
mangganjal~block
mangganjang~elongated
mangganti~spinning
mangganti~replace
mangganti~change
mangganti~exchange
mangganti~copy
manggantihon~replace
manggantihon~copy
mangganuphon~sufficient
manggapgapi~lie
manggapgapi~lie
manggarar~pay
manggarar~installments
manggarar~deposit
manggargarhon~solve
manggashon~break
manggashon~split
manggashon~cut
manggashon~decide
manggaut~call
manggegehon~exhausting
manggegehon~crushing
manggendong~carry
manggeneng~rounded
manggeno~damage
manggerdek~seduce
manggigil~shivering
mangginsi~indemnify
mangginsi~obey
manggirdak~advance
manggirdak~bring
manggirdak~invite
manggirgir~shiver
manggirgiri~freezing
manggisal~strengthen
manggisal~be strong
manggisgis~mow the lawn
manggisgis~afternoon
manggisgis~grazing
manggisgisi~mowing down the grass
manggisgisi~weed
manggobang~roared
manggogo~insisted
manggogo~insist
manggogo~try
manggogo~try to be strong
manggogo~strengthen
manggogohi~strengthen
manggogohon~emphasize
manggogohon~strengthen
manggogohon~endeavor
manggohi~fulfil
manggohi~fill in
manggokhon~inviting
manggoki~make it full
manggoki~fulfil
manggoki~add
manggoli~determine
manggoli~set
manggoli~end
manggoli~installments
manggolom~Lie
manggolom~hold
manggolom~grasp
manggombarhon~describe
manggomgom~Reign
manggomgomi~protect
manggomgomi~Reign
manggomgomi~rule
manggomgomi~protect
manggomgomi~control
manggompishon~steady
manggompishon~freshen up
manggompishon~strengthen
manggompishon~healthy
manggompishon~tidy up
manggonda~caring
manggonda~care
manggonda~pay attention
manggonda~take meaning
manggondit~limit
manggondit~set
manggondit~schedule
manggonghon~inviting
manggontam~startling
manggonti~replace
manggontihon~replace
manggora~shout
manggora~call
manggora~screeched
manggora~shouted
manggora~inviting
manggora~mention
manggorahon~call
manggorahon~squealing
manggorahon~shouted
manggorahon~announce
manggorahon~mention
manggorahon~called out
manggorbang~What
manggorbang~shave
manggorbang~shorn
manggorbang~cut
manggorbang~shave
manggorda~forbid
manggorda~scold
manggorda~does not allow
manggosa~slash
manggosa~slaughter
manggosa~persecute
manggosa~beat
manggosa~hit
manggosa~oppressive
manggosa~hurt
manggosa~excruciating
manggotap~decapitate
manggotap~cut
manggotap~disconnect
manggotil~harvest
manggotil~pick
manggotil~pinch
manggotil~tickle
manggotil~pinch
manggotil~reap
manggotil~flick
manggual~hammering
manggual~telling you
manggualhon~tell
manggudar~injure
manggudar~hit
manggudar~he groaned
manggugai~messed up
manggugai~bother
manggugai~annoying
manggugut~eat
manggugut~taste
manggugut~snacking
mangguit~poke
mangguit~cheating
mangguit~touch
manggulang~grind
manggulang~roll
manggulang~drop
manggule~sugar
manggulmit~action
manggulmit~move
manggulsakhon~use
manggulsakhon~profitable
manggulut~plunder
manggulut~seize
manggumir~shake
manggumol~struggling
manggumol~struggling
manggumol~oppose
manggumol~stomping his feet
manggumpal~freeze
manggunahon~utilise
manggunahon~use
manggunde~exhausting
manggunde~make you upset
manggunggung~bring
manggunggung~take
manggunjal~move
manggunjal~sway
manggunjal~rolling around
manggunjal~stretched
manggunjal~shake
manggunjal~shake
manggunjal~struggling
manggunsang~unpack
manggunsang~stir
manggunsang~shake
manggunsir~What
manggunsir~shave
manggurat~smear
manggurat~line
manggurat~scratch
manggurat~scratch
manggurdak~put something in
manggurdak~chase away
manggurduk~dispel
manggurtuhi~hit
manggurtuhi~menokok
mangguruhon~learn
manggusari~annoying
manggusari~hurt
manggusting~pruning
manggusting~cut
manggusting~scissor
manggutaguta~cheat
manghabarhon~preach
manghabarhon~report
manghabia~replace
manghabishon~use up
manghabishon~finish
manghaburjuhon~do
manghadap~visit
manghaehae~consider
manghaehae~heed
manghaehae~encounter
manghaholongi~love
manghaholongi~love
manghaholongi~love
manghaholongihu~love me
manghaholongimu~love you
manghailahon~embarrassed about it
manghailahon~embarrassing
manghais~gripping
manghais~scavenge
manghajongjonghon~justify
manghajongjonghon~establish
manghajongjonghon~explained
manghajongjonghon~set
manghajongjonghon~disclose
manghajongjonghon~watched
manghajongjonghon~state
manghajongjonghon~confession
manghakam~covers
manghakam~covers
manghalangi~block
manghalangi~ban
manghalangi~block
manghalangi~obstruct
manghalashon~happy
manghalashon~encouraging
manghalashon~welcome
manghalashon~leave
manghali~multiply
manghali~dig
manghaliangi~surround
manghaliangi~covet
manghalingi~obstruct
manghallung~bring
manghallung~shoulder
manghallung~axle
manghalomohon~appraise
manghalomohon~like
manghalomohon~covet
manghalomohon~want
manghalomohon~like it
manghalupahon~forget
manghalushon~deny
manghamauliatehon~grateful
manghamham~covers
manghamham~control
manghampi~replace
manghampir~influential
manghampir~influence
manghampir~about
manghampir~give rise to
manghamsarhon~launch
manghandit~bring
manghandit~lift
manghandit~trolling
manghansithon~hurtful
manghansiti~injure
manghansiti~hurt
manghansitimu~hurt you
manghantushon~explain
manghaol~hug
manghaol~hug
manghaol~embrace
manghaot~take
manghapian~want
manghapian~want
manghapian~like
manghapian~like something
manghapian~salute
manghara~invite
manghara~inviting
mangharamoti~bless
mangharharhon~mess
mangharharhon~strip off
mangharharhon~elaborate
mangharingkothon~carry out
mangharingkothon~craft yourself
mangharingkothon~procurement
mangharingkothon~like important
mangharophon~expect
manghartuk~nudge
manghartuk~touch
mangharuarhon~fire
mangharuarhon~eject
mangharuarhon~emit
mangharugihon~damage
mangharugihon~bear a loss
mangharugihon~suffer a loss
manghasangaphon~glorify
manghaseahon~use
manghaseahon~use
manghaseahon~produce
manghasiani~like more
manghasiani~golden child
manghasiani~love
manghasiani~love
manghasiholhon~crave
manghasiholhon~covet
manghasiholhon~miss something
manghasogo~hate
manghasonanghon~pleasant
manghatahatai~talk
manghatahatai~chat
manghatahatai~chat
manghatahatai~have a conversation
manghatahatai~chatting
manghatahatai~dialogue
manghatahatai~chat
manghatahatai~hanging out
manghatahatai~rant
manghatahatai~chat
manghatahon~express
manghatahon~discuss
manghatahon~talk about
manghatahon~said
manghatahon~say
manghatahon~discuss
manghatahon~say
manghatahon~express
manghatai~speak
manghatai~talk
manghatai~have a conversation
manghatai~talk
manghatai~said
manghatai~chat
manghatai~say
manghatai~say
manghatindanghon~testify
manghatindanghon~explained
manghatindanghon~confess
manghatindanghon~watched
manghatindanghon~confession
manghedek~lick
manghehei~awaken
manghehei~wake
manghehelai~cursed
manghehelai~swear
manghelel~persuade
manghelung~look for
manghereherei~threaten
manghereherei~chase
mangherem~persuade
mangherem~seduce
manghesut~shrinking
manghesut~shrink
manghibul~rounded
manghilala~show impact
manghilala~feel
manghilala~feel
manghilala~feel it too
manghilalahon~feel
manghilalai~feel
manghilangi~blackmail people
manghilangi~shiny
manghilangi~cheat
manghindat~lift
manghira~think
manghirim~guess
manghirim~hope
manghirim~covet
manghitir~shiver
manghitir~makes you tremble
manghitir~shake
manghitiri~shaking
manghitiri~shivering
manghitsu~cheat
manghobar~chat
manghobari~chat
manghobari~chat
manghobari~have a conversation
manghobari~chatting
manghobas~tidy up
manghobas~prepare
manghobasi~serve
manghobasi~prepare
manghobasi~packing
manghobasi~prepare
manghobason~help
manghobat~hug
manghois~scavenge
manghole~row
mangholipi~surround
mangholipi~obstruct
mangholipi~hide
mangholso~sigh
mangholting~bandage
mangholting~tie
mangholting~save
manghomat~remember yourself
manghomat~behave
manghomat~alert
manghombarhombari~approach
manghomit~save
manghomit~control
manghona~hit
manghonahon~wearing
manghonai~about
manghongkop~hug
manghophop~sacrifice
manghophop~tired
manghophop~fight for
manghophop~embrace
manghopol~bandage
manghopol~wrap
manghorasi~healthy
manghorasi~calling for congratulations
manghorasi~approve
manghorasi~meridoi
manghorhon~impact
manghorhon~influence
manghorhon~result
manghorhon~give rise to
manghorhonhon~cause
manghormati~honor
manghorot~cut
manghorot~ascending
manghorot~tighten
manghorot~incised
manghorus~destroy
manghorus~take
manghorus~use up
manghorus~delete
manghorus~skinning
manghosai~exhale
manghosai~blow
manghosik~whip
manghosik~hit
manghosik~swish
manghosinghon~reverse
manghoting~twist
manghuar~unpack
manghuar~dig
manghuar~pry
manghuasoi~control
manghubak~make a hole
manghubak~emit
manghudus~chasing time
manghudus~speed up
manghudus~urge
manghulhul~twist
manghulhul~winding thread
manghuling~speak
manghuling~sounds
manghuling~ringing
manghuling~make a sound
manghulingihon~greet
manghundang~persuade
manghundang~alluring
manghundang~interesting
manghundang~convincing
manghuntam~suppress
manghuntam~close
manghuntam~smother
manghunti~uphold
manghuphup~cover
manghuphup~close
manghurak~dredge
manghurak~dig
manghurak~pry
manghurangi~reduce
manghurbit~shake
manghurtik~touch
manghurunghon~imprison
manghurunghon~catch
manghutur~shivering
manghutur~shake
manghutur~shake
mangiashon~clean
mangida~see
mangida~staring
mangida~look
mangido~request
mangido~plead
mangido~charge
mangido~submit
mangido~covet
mangidohon~ask for something
mangidohon~ask
mangidohon~propose
mangidohon~recommend
mangidohon~ask for something
mangidupi~live
mangihot~tie
mangihut~by
mangihuthin~follow
mangihuthon~emulate
mangihuthon~follow
mangihuthon~accompany
mangihuthon~obey
mangihuti~follow
mangihuti~obey
mangilala~see
mangilala~pay attention
mangilala~feel
mangimbarhon~differentiate
mangimbus~blow
mangingani~inhabit
mangingani~occupy
mangingani~inhabit
mangingani~wait
manginggalhon~pampering
mangingot~in memory of
mangingot~remember
mangingothon~remind
mangingotkon~remind
mangingotkon!!!~remind
manginjak~step on
manginona~influential
manginona~feel
manginona~felt
manginona~affected
manginonahon~feel
manginonai~feel
manginsahi~harassing
manginsahi~reproach
manginsahi~railed
manginsahi~sneer
manginsahi~insulting
manginsahi~make fun
manginsak~reproach
manginsak~scoffed
manginsir~creeping
manginsir~slide
manginsir~flow
manginsir~rolling
manginsir~spread
manginsir~creeping
manginsir~creeping
manginsurut~shuffled
manginsurut~return
manginsurut~rewind
manginsurut~resign
mangintubu~give birth to
manginum~drink
manginum~drink
mangipari~cross
mangipi~dream
mangipi~dreaming
mangir~Beautiful
mangir~beautiful
mangir~sweet
mangiran~hunt
mangiran~hunt
mangiran~hunt animals
mangiran~intercept
mangiran~get in the way
mangiran~stalking animals
mangirang~separate
mangirang~divorce
mangirikirik~request
mangirikirik~plead
mangirikirik~submit
mangiring~guide
mangiring~guide
mangiring~overseen
mangiring~herding
mangiring~accompanying
mangiring~guide
mangiringhon~supervise
mangiringhon~accompany
mangiringi~supervise
mangiringi~accompany
mangirngir~shivering
mangirput~hiding
mangirput~back down
mangirput~feel embarrassed
mangirput~afraid to fight
mangisi~fill in
mangisinhon~allow
mangiup~exhale
mangiup~blow
mangkalaosi~let
mangkalilinghon~distribute
mangkaolho~hug you
mangkar~stay up late
mangkar~not ready
mangkar~mengkal
mangkar~raw
mangkar~half-baked
mangkar~not quite enough
mangkar~not completed
mangkar~not perfect
mangkarejohon~do
mangkasing~castrate
mangkasonangkon~pleasant
mangkeker~see
mangkeker~aiming
mangkeker~peep
mangkis~dry
mangkorhon~result
mangkuling~sounds
mangkuling~make a sound
manglaeanhon~make happy
manglaeanhon~like it
mangmang~prayer
mangmang~determination
mangogai~yelling
mangogai~challenge
mangogai~threaten someone
mangohop~warm
mangojakhon~establish
mangojakhon~agree
mangojakhon~validate
mangojakhon~confirmed
mangojakhon~formalize
mangojot~hinder
mangojot~hinder
mangokku~confess
mangoku~confess
mangolang~release
mangolang~separate
mangolang~exclude
mangolap~against
mangolati~withhold
mangolati~chase
mangolati~herding
mangolati~obstruct
mangolati~chase away
mangoli~marry
mangoli~male marriage
mangoli~Marry
mangoli~married man
mangollok~having intercourse
mangollok~have sex
mangollok~fuck
mangolohon~agree
mangolohon~want something
mangolohon~confirm
mangolohon~obey
mangolohon~agreed
mangolohon~agree
mangoloi~familiar
mangoloi~obey
mangoloi~fulfil
mangoloi~obey
mangoloi~value
mangoloi~follow
mangoloi~confirmed
mangoloi~confirm
mangoloi~obey
mangoloi~agree
mangoloi~submit
mangolophon~support
mangolophon~accept
mangolophon~favor
mangolophon~welcome
mangolophon~agree
mangolophon~cheering someone on
mangolu~life
mangoludo~his life
mangoluhon~turn on
mangolui~live
mangoluma~live
mangomang~forbid
mangomang~scold
mangomang~silence
mangomang~hinder
mangombak~spur
mangombak~hoe
mangombil~protect
mangombus~exhale
mangombus~blow
mangomo~succeed
mangomo~profitable
mangomo~lucky
mangomo~Get advantage
mangompa~carry
mangompashon~blow away
mangompashon~drop
mangompoi~enter
mangompoi~inhabit
mangonai~about
mangonai~happen to someone
mangondam~threaten
mangondam~bluff
mangondas~dance
mangondas~dance of death
mangondasi~dance
mangondi~defend
mangondihon~protect
mangondihon~defend
mangondihon~bear
mangondihon~protect
mangondingi~protect
mangondingi~obstruct
mangondingi~cover
mangondingi~hide
mangondolhon~justify
mangondolhon~emphasize
mangondolhon~strengthen
mangongkal~looked up
mangongkal~dig
mangongkong~pray for
mangongkong~hard
mangongkong~sore
mangongkong~rheumatic disease
mangongkos~rent
mangonjar~push
mangonjar~pushing
mangonsit~forbid
mangonsit~scold
mangonsit~rebuked
mangonsit~frightening
mangonsop~suck
mangonsop~suck
mangonsop~suck
mangonsop~absorb
mangontang~inviting
mangontapi~prevent
mangontohi~dry
mangontohi~stop
mangontok~stop
mangorai~forbid
mangorai~scold
mangorai~nagging
mangorai~not allowed
mangordong~turn
mangordong~twist
mangordong~twist something
mangordong~look for
mangoro~engaged
mangorong~sigh
mangorong~groaned
mangorong~barking
mangorong~whimpering
mangorpoi~reduce
mangorpoi~reduce
mangorpoi~condescending
mangorui~reduce
mangorui~subtract
mangosari~release
mangosari~undress
mangosari~scatter
mangose~violate
mangose~deny
mangose~deny
mangose~change
mangose~remodel
mangotan~hold
mangotan~carrying
mangotang~still
mangotang~sincere
mangotap~prevent
mangotapi~prevent
mangotapi~obstruct
mangotapi~reduce
mangotapi~hinder
mangotihi~reduce
mangotihi~reduce
mangotootoi~cheat
mangotootoi~fool around
mangotootoi~cheating
mangotootoi~outsmart
mangotootoi~outwit
mangsi~beautiful
mangsi~ink
mangsi~color
manguba~change
manguba~remodel
manguba~change
mangubati~support
mangubati~treat
mangudor~spinning
mangudurhon~make a line
mangudurhon~lead
mangudut~continued
mangudut~continue
mangugit~touch
mangugul~inspect
mangugul~investigate the case
manguhal~discuss
manguhal~analyze
manguhal~emit
manguhal~dig
manguhal~scrape it out
manguhal~suck
manguhali~emit
manguhe~gouge the ground
manguhe~dig
manguhe~pry
manguhum~judge
manguhum~punish
manguhumi~judge
manguhumi~punish people
manguhumi~weigh
manguhur~weigh
manguji~inspect
manguji~try
manguji~test
mangujungi~end
mangukkur~measure
mangula~Work
mangula~farming
mangula~hoe
mangula~manage
mangula~working the fields
mangulahon~try
mangulahon~carry out
mangulahon~do
mangulahon~handle
mangulahon~manage
mangulahon~do
mangulahon~organize
mangulahon~procurement
mangullus~blowing
mangullus~exhale
mangullus~blow
manguloki~lie
mangulon~stop
mangulon~rest
mangulon~Rest
mangulpak~scold
mangulpak~hit
mangulpuk~determine
mangulpuk~towards you
mangulpuk~fortune telling
mangultong~blow
manguluhon~sour
manguluhon~lead
manguluhon~lead the matter
manguluhon~arrange
manguluhon~heads
mangumban~build a house
mangumban~repair
mangumban~restore
mangumban~he groaned
mangumbol~come
mangumbol~visit
mangumbol~visit
mangumei~look after
mangumei~repair
mangumei~manage
mangumma~kiss
mangumma~fondling
mangumpat~unplug
mangunangi~forbid
mangunangi~scold
mangunangi~prevent
mangunda~alluring
mangunda~interesting
mangundang~inspect
mangundang~try
mangundang~try
mangundang~competing for strength
mangundang~test
mangundang~listening
mangundokpong~sad
mangundokpong~irritated
mangundukhon~fulfil
mangundukhon~nod
mangundukhon~confirmed
mangundukhon~confirm
mangundukhon~subdue yourself
mangundurhon~leading the group
mangundurhon~accompany
mangundurhon~resign
manguneune~repair
mangungu~silent
mangungu~silent
mangungu~silence
mangunjun~try
mangunjun~test
mangunjungi~try
mangunjungi~tempt
mangunjungi~test people
mangunjuni~try
mangunsat~move
mangunsat~ask back
mangunsat~charge
mangunsat~charge back
mangunsat~told to move
mangunsilhon~isolate
mangunsisi~keep far
mangunsisi~avoided
mangunsisi~left out
mangunsol~withhold
mangunsol~stop
mangunsol~become stuck
mangunsol~stop
mangunungi~persuade
mangunungi~influence
mangunungi~give rise to
mangurarat~widespread
mangurarat~spread
mangurarat~creeping
manguras~wash
manguras~clean
manguras~splashed
manguras~drain
manguras~purify
mangurgas~clean
mangurgas~scrub clean
mangurgas~purify
mangurtut~make wrinkles
mangurtut~shrunk in fear
mangurtut~shrink
mangurtut~frowned
mangurtut~scary
mangurtut~Afraid
mangurupi~help
mangurupi~rally
mangurupi~lend a hand
mangurupi~help
mangurupi~support
mangurupi~subsidize
mangurupi~donate
mangurut~squeeze
mangurut~sort
manguruuru~scoffed
manguruuru~scoffed
mangusa~wash
mangusa~clean
mangusa~rub
mangusim~give a message
mangusim~slanderous
mangusim~swear
mangusir~dispel
manguso~ask
mangusoi~asked
mangusoi~look for
mangusung~drive
mangusung~bring
mangusung~bring
mangusung~shoulder
mangusung~transport
mangusung~drive
mangusung~carry
maniak~spiciness
maniak~painful
maniak~spicy
maniak~painful
maniak~stings
manibalhon~put
manibit~pinch
maniganigahon~trade
maniganigahon~trade
maniganigahon~sell
maniganigahon~sell
manigat~inspect
manigat~look for
manigor~immediately
manigor~direct
manigor~quick
manigor~Keep going
manigorhon~carry out
manigorhon~continue
manihai~reproach
manihai~criticize
manihai~accuse
maniham~slash
maniham~stabbed
maniham~stabbed
manihul~turn
manijur~spit
manik~bead
manikam~kill
manikam~stabbed
manikam~stab
manikhon~dispel
manikhon~chase away
maniktik~knock
maniktik~knock on the door
manilbit~touch
manilbit~touch
manilik~peep
manilik~look
manilli~glance
manilli~ignore
manilpokhon~break
manilpokhon~kill
manilpokhon~solve
manilpokhon~destroy
manimbang~measure
manimbang~weigh
manimbil~defected
manimbil~different
manimbil~turn away
manimbil~very different
manimbil~defected
manimbil~deviated
manimbuknimbuk~hoarseness increases
manimbuknimbuk~increase
manimbung~jump
manimbung~jump
manimbur~run
manimpalhon~throw
manimpalhon~throw
manimpalhon~throw away
manimpalhon~dump
manimpas~Enough
manimpas~complete
manimpas~finish off
manimpuli~end
manimpus~wrap
manimpus~bandage
manimpus~rob
manindang~stand
manindanghon~stand up
manindangi~be a witness
manindangi~watched
manindar~glow
manindar~emit light
manindar~illuminate
manindo~review
manindo~smile
maninggalhon~leave
maninggalhonon~leave
maningganghon~throw away
maningganghon~blow away
maningganghon~drop
maningkat~replace
maningkat~increase
maningkathon~replace
maningki~replace
maningki~change
maningki~exchange
maningkir~visit
maningkir~mourn
maningkir~see
maningkir~visit
maningkir~look
maningkir~peep
maningkir~visit
maningkir~visit
maningsinghon~speeding
maningsinghon~urge
maningsinghon~push
maningtinghon~announce
maninsal~scold
maninsal~reproach
maninsal~scoffed
maninsal~rebuked
maninsal~punish
manintak~interesting
manintak~jerked
manintak~plunder
manintinghon~report
manintinghon~announce
maniop~hold
maniop~touch
maniopi~holding something
maniopi~withhold
manipani~talk about
manipani~think about
manipani~weigh
manipani~ponder
manipat~many like
manipat~deep
manipat~during
manipat~throughout
manipis~thinning
maniptip~cut
maniptip~cut
manirang~separate
manirang~divorce
maniranghon~separate
maniranghon~divorce
manirihon~throw away
manirihon~dump
maniroi~caring
maniroi~care
maniroi~advise
maniroi~supervise
maniroi~explain
maniroi~nurse
manirsir~sow
manirsir~scatter
maniru~imitate
maniru~emulate
maniru~copy
maniru~plagiarize
maniru~cheat
manis~beautiful
manis~sweet
manise~mourn
manise~ask
manise~rebuked
manise~greet
manisio~shelter
manisio~take shelter
manisiri~inspect
manisiri~browse
manisiri~along
manismu~your sweet
maniti~determine
manitip~cut
manitip~meranting
maniuk~stroking the chin
maniuk~lift
maniuk~suck
maniuk~scooping
maniuk~touching chin
maniurhon~enlightening
manjabat~position
manjabat~Work
manjabat~work
manjabat~unplug
manjabat~took office
manjabat~work
manjadi~succeed
manjadi~tangible
manjadi~become
manjadi~formed
manjadi~happen
manjadihon~make
manjadihon~create
manjadihon~make
manjadihonsa~make it
manjadihonsa~created it
manjadihonsa~make it
manjae~independent
manjae~stand-alone
manjae~independent
manjaga~supervise
manjaga~guard
manjaga~wait
manjaga~protection
manjagai~supervise
manjagai~look after
manjaha~read
manjahana~read it
manjahasa~read it
manjais~dodge
manjakhon~accept
manjakhon~adopt
manjala~fishing
manjala~fishing
manjalahi~wander
manjalahi~look for
manjalahi~go through
manjalahi~explore
manjalin~got tangled
manjalin~intertwine
manjalin~entangled
manjalo~get
manjalo~request
manjalo~accept
manjalo~submit
manjalo~welcome
manjama~hold
manjama~manage
manjama~touch
manjama~touch
manjama~fingering
manjambutjambut~interesting
manjamitahon~tell
manjamitahon~tell something
manjamitahon~preach
manjamorehon~steal
manjamorehon~outsmart
manjamothon~supervise
manjamothon~look after
manjamothon~be alert
manjamoti~supervise
manjamoti~look after
manjamoti~be alert
manjangak~steal
manjangak~rob
manjangak~rob
manjangginghon~tie
manjangkit~climb
manjangkit~spread
manjangkithon~raise
manjangkon~accommodate
manjangkon~accept
manjangkon~confess
manjangkon~welcome
manjanji~determine
manjanji~set
manjarar~spread
manjarga~want
manjargai~share
manjarujaru~inspect
manjarujaru~appraise
manjarujaru~weigh
manjehehon~betray
manjehei~betray
manjejerhon~sort
manjeleng~put it aside
manjeleng~look away
manjeleng~overthrow
manjemjem~seduce
manjilir~creeping
manjimbur~light up
manjingkal~take it quickly
manjingkal~steal
manjirir~creeping
manjirir~spread
manjirir~creeping
manjirir~creeping
manjojang~invite
manjojang~leads
manjomba~pounce
manjombong~attack
manjomput~pick up
manjomput~profiteer
manjomput~pick
manjomput~pick up
manjongjongi~do
manjongkal~measure
manjongkal~span
manjongkas~cheat
manjonok~approaching
manjonok~approaching
manjorat~tie
manjorat~net
manjorat~ensnare
manjou~call
manjou~inviting
manjua~disobedient
manjua~defiant
manjua~refused
manjua~dodge
manjua~reject
manjua~disobey
manjujui~direct
manjujui~ordered
manjujuki~direct
manjujung~uphold
manjujur~choose
manjujur~blame
manjujur~count
manjujuri~approach slowly
manjujuri~count
manjujuri~explain
manjukjuk~striking
manjukjuk~stands out
manjuljul~stand out
manjullak~stabbed
manjulluk~dipping
manjulluk~striking
manjulluk~penetrate
manjulluk~stands out
manjulluk~stab
manjulluk~poke
manjulur~creeping
manjumpai~encounter
manjumpanghon~find
manjumpanghon~visit
manjumpangi~meet
manjumpangi~contact
manjumpangi~encounter
manjungkiti~pick
manjungkiti~unplug
manjungkiti~open the wound
manjungkiti~standing out
manjupung~What
manjupung~shave
manjupung~shave the beard
manjupung~shave the mustache
manman~slow
manman~slowly
manobang~cut down
manobonoboi~calm
manobonoboi~entertain
manodam~make it hit
manodam~about
manodo~choose
manodo~determine
manodo~test
manodo~pointing
manodos~kill
manogari~entertain
manogihon~lead
manogihon~invite
manogihon~deploy
manogihon~guide
manogitnogit~Afraid
manogot~tomorrow morning
manogot~Morning
manogot~morning
manogotna~tomorrow morning
manogotna~the morning
manogu~support
manogu~guide
manogu~build
manogu~guide
manogunogu~support
manogunogu~lead
manogunogu~interesting
manogunogu~herding
manogunogu~guide
manoksok~scorched
manoksok~burnt
manolai~intervene
manolai~separate
manolaihon~separate
manolaihon~separate
manolak~share
manolak~separate
manolang~wedge
manolang~alienate
manolang~block
manolang~insert
manolang~individually
manolgap~devour
manolgap~catch
manolhotnolhoti~come closer
manolhotnolhoti~approach
manollop~immerse
manollop~repair
manollu~jump
manolom~hold
manolong~help
manolong~help
manolopi~agree
manolopi~respond
manolopi~support
manolopi~agree
manolopi~value
manolopi~agreed
manolopi~agree
manolpahon~obstruct
manolpai~catch
manolpai~attack
manolsol~regret
manolukhon~replace
manolukhon~swap places
manomba~adore
manomba~honor
manomba~worship
manomba~prostrate
manombis~nudge
manombis~elbow
manombo~rages
manombo~came intermittently
manombo~relapsed
manombo~recurrent
manombom~violate
manombom~hit
manombom~hit
manombom~crashed
manompa~form
manompa~create
manompa~forge
manompa~make
manompahon~create
manompang~hitchhiking
manompas~throw away
manompas~break through
manompas~remodel
manompashon~blow away
manompashon~drop
manompi~carry
manomu~welcome
manomu~follow
manomunomu~wait
manomunomu~welcome
manomunomu~welcome
manonahon~instruct
manonahon~order
manonahon~order
manonahon~mandate
manondan~obstruct
manondan~hinder
manondang~illuminate
manondang~illuminate
manondanghon~explained
manondanghon~shine a light on something
manondangi~illuminate
manondangi~illuminate
manondit~shiver
manondit~sour
manondit~scary
manondit~afraid to
manondong~challenge
manondong~face the problem
manondong~nudge
manondong~touch
manondur~see
manondur~watch
manonggor~see
manonggor~watch
manonggothon~startling
manongkal~refused
manongkal~ward off
manongkal~prevent
manongkal~reject
manongko~cheat
manongkok~hammering
manongkok~hit
manongkok~menokok
manongkong~hold
manongkong~withhold
manongkong~gripping
manongkong~support
manongkonongko~lie
manongkonongko~foist
manongnong~wet
manongnong~wash
manongnong~shipwrecked
manongnong~sink
manongnong~sunk
manongos~send
manongos~entrust
manongoshon~send
manongoshon~entrust
manongsong~hinder
manongsong~clog
manongtong~stay
manongtong~eternal
manongtonghon~set
manonoi~mess up
manonoi~bother
manonoi~ruin something
manontong~continues to apply
manontong~Still
manontong~stay
manontong~eternal
manontong~always
manontong~remains the same
manontong~do not change
manontonghon~set
manontu~uncertain
manontuhon~ensure
manontuhon~determine
manontuhon~set
manopa~form
manopa~forge
manopikhon~solve
manopot~apply
manopot~propose
manopot~visit
manopot~encounter
manopothon~get
manopoti~meet
manopoti~confess
manopoti~admit something
manorahon~deliver
manordahon~share
manordahon~distribute
manorgang~argue
manorgang~snapped
manorgang~scary
manorgang~wandering
manorhon~determine
manorhon~guess
manorin~replace
manorin~take turns
manoring~take over
manoring~replace
manoringhon~replace
manoriori~step aside
manoriori~pulled over
manoro~hold
manoro~catch
manoro~pounce
manoro~ambush
manoro~break in
manoro~plunder
manoro~snatch
manoro~undermine
manorong~push
manorop~stings
manorop~penetrated
manorpa~hold
manorpa~catch
manorpai~catch
manorpai~attack
manorpanorpa~catch
manorpanorpa~attack
manorponorpo~surprise
manorponorpo~startling
manortor~dance
manoru~humble
manorui~damn
manorui~protest
manorui~come
manorus~very cold
manorus~freezing
manorus~continue
manorus~continuously
manosa~delete
manosa~remodel
manosak~urge
manosak~bother
manosalhon~urge
manosopi~shading the picture
manosopi~hoard
manosopi~close
manotaphon~confirmed
manotaphon~set
manotar~repair
manotar~develop
manotas~prepare
manotas~pioneering
manotongkea~want to
manotongkea~want
manotongkea~want
manotophon~set
manpadenggan~repair
mansabati~prevent
mansadi~stop
mansahathon~convey
mansai~very
mansai~very
mansai~the more
mansai~Really
mansai~too
mansaii~very
mansaima~very
mansalai~endanger
mansalong~pick
mansalong~looking for vegetables
mansalong~quote
mansam~miscellaneous
mansam~method
mansam~pattern
mansam~type
mansam~type
mansam~variety
mansam~variation
mansandiri~alone
mansangapi~honor
mansaritahon~tell
mansatat~take notes
mansauti~carry out
mansauti~do
mansauti~procurement
mansega~damage
mansintai~love
mansintaihu~love me
mansintaihu~love me
mansintaihu~love me
mansoadahon~lie
mansoadahon~disobedient
mansoadahon~argue
mansoadahon~deny
mansoadahon~eliminate
mansoanso~wandering around
mansoanso~hanging around
mansoanso~unemployed
mansoanso~wander
mansogohon~irritating
mansohot~stop
mansohot~marry
mansohot~Marry
mansot~even
mansot~even though
mansot~until
mansot~although
mansuba~try
mansuba~test
mansundathon~cancel
mansundathon~thwart
mansut~melted
mantabohon~nice
mantak~plump
mantat~will
mantat~caused
mantat~bring
mantat~become
manual~arguing
manual~deny
manual~combat
manuan~plant
manuang~melt (metal)
manuang~melt
manuang~pouring
manuanhon~plant
manuanhon~embed
manuani~plant
manuani~grateful
manuarang~develop
manuarang~grow
manuarang~expand
manuarang~famous
manubanghon~abstain
manubanghon~forbid
manubanghon~mature
manubanghon~scold
manubo~try
manubuhon~give birth to
manubuhon~beget
manubuhon~produce
manubuhon~grow
manubut~persuade
manubut~appeal
manubut~take heart
manubuti~persuade
manubuti~exciting
manubuti~approve
manudu~accuse
manudu~pointing
manudu~thought
manuduhon~show
manuganhon~divert
manuhar~oppose
manuhar~against someone
manuharhon~reverse
manuhas~accuse
manuhas~thought
manuhat~count
manuhat~measure
manuhe~lift
manuhe~elevate
manuhe~increase
manuhoi~share
manuhor~snacking
manuhor~buy
manuhorna~buy it
manuhuk~shoulder
manuhuk~back
manuhuk~stretcher
manuhuk~handle
manuhuk~carry
manuhuni~prepare
manuju~aiming
manuju~going to
manuk~chicken
manukkangi~build
manukkangi~repair
manukkangi~carpenter
manukkar~replace
manukkar~exchange
manukkarhon~replace
manukkarhon~exchange
manukkun~ask
manukkur~What
manukkur~cut
manukkur~shave
manukna~the chicken
manuksi~wash
manuktuk~knock
manuktuk~knock
manulak~refused
manulak~return
manulak~reject
manulangi~feed
manulbas~add
manulhut~burn
manulingkit~guess
manulingkit~research
manulingkit~interrogate
manulingkit~probing
manulingkit~investigate
manullang~stabbed
manullang~stab
manulluk~dip
manulluk~stab
manulon~stop
manulon~withhold
manulpang~hitchhiking
manultul~pounding
manultul~stumbled
manultul~stumble
manuluk~try
manuluk~measure
manulus~continue
manulus~end
manuluthon~follow
manuluti~supervise
manuman~match with
manuman~follow the trail
manuman~copy
manumbang~answered
manumbang~donate
manumbang~donate
manume~overflow
manumpa~form
manumpahi~help
manumpahi~support
manumpahi~donate
manumpak~help
manumpak~support
manumpak~donate
manumpaki~help
manumpaki~support
manumpaki~donate
manumpur~aiming
manumpur~hit
manumpur~catch
manumpur~crashed
manumpur~butting
manumung~hold
manumung~catch
manundalhon~reverse
manundalhon~back
manundalhon~leave
manundali~back
manundali~turn your back
manundati~cancel
manundati~withhold
manundati~suspend
manundati~prevent
manundati~mengensel
manundati~thwart
manundati~obstruct
manundati~hinder
manundati~postpone
manundun~build
manundur~possibility
manundur~talk about
manundur~explore
manunggalinghon~drop
manunggalinghon~overturn
manunggu~charge
manunggu~demand
manunggul~build
manunggul~remember
manunggul~chase away animals
manunggul~give rise to
manunggul~causes hatred
manunggul~causes joy
manunggul~cause anger
manungguli~build
manungguli~wake
manungguli~remember
manungguli~remind
manungguli~awaken
manungka~weak
manungka~agreed
manungkar~oppose
manungkar~against
manungkar~exchange
manungkol~looking up
manungkol~block
manungkol~sustain
manungkol~support
manungkolnungkoli~help
manungkolnungkoli~support
manungkoti~obstruct
manungkun~ask
manungkun~consultation
manungkun~ask
manungkun~rebuked
manungkun~reprimand anyone
manungkur~What
manungkur~shave
manungkus~wrap
manunja~crowded
manunja~urge people
manunja~shift
manunja~nudge
manunjungi~look for
manunsi~wash
manuntun~determined
manuntun~force
manura~stabbed
manura~stab
manurahi~reproach
manurahi~condemn
manurahi~scoffed
manurahi~disgrace
manurahi~cheering someone on
manurai~penetrate something
manurai~stabbed us
manurai~stab
manuranura~imagine
manuranura~estimate
manuranura~appraise
manuranura~guess
manuranura~thinking about it
manurasihon~tell
manurasihon~announce
manurasihon~explain
manurat~take notes
manurat~write
manurat~write
manurati~write
manurati~write
manurbu~burn
manurdukhon~stick out
manurdukhon~convey
manurdukhon~handed
manurdukhon~stretch
manurgas~give advice
manurgas~advise
manurinurihon~legendary
manurinurihon~tell
manurinurihon~tells the story
manuriranghon~enter obligation
manuriranghon~point out something
manuriranghon~predict
manuriranghon~ponder
manurpukhon~share
manurpukhon~fateful
manurpukhon~gather
manuru~assign
manuru~ordered
manuruk~enter
manuruk~inhabit
manuruk~break through
manuruk~stepped in
manurumbun~lush
manus~forgotten
manus~not care
manusai~burdensome
manusai~make things difficult for people
manusai~troublesome
manusai~troublesome
manusia~man
manustus~keep walking
manustus~urge
manusuk~line up
manusuk~pinch
manusuk~stabbed
manusuk~stab
manutak~throw away
manutak~revealed
manutu~grind
manutu~grind
manutu~pounding
manutung~burn
manutup~close
manuturhon~sour
manuturhon~make a row
manuturhon~teach
manuturhon~arrange
manuturi~defend
manuturi~arrange
manuturi~direct
manuturi~explain
maol~valuable
maol~worth
maol~expensive
maol~sucks
maol~important
maol~complicated
maol~hard
maol~difficult
maol~difficult
maol2~sucks
maol2~difficult
maoldo~it sucks
maoldoo~how difficult it is
maolna~how difficult it is
maos~often
maos~over and over again
maos~that's all
maos~always
maos~boring
maos~a kind of monkey
maos~always
maoto~dablek
maoto~be stupid
mapaboa~telling you
mapaboaon~tell
mapaimahon~wait
mapasahaton~convey
mapaspas~bald
mapaspas~fall out
mapatardashon~disclose
mapeut~regardless
mapiltik~hit
mapipil~free
mapisar~lame
mapisar~crushed and crushed
mapisar~split
mapisik~is lost
mapisik~fall
mapisik~crumble
mapolpol~close
maponggol~broken
maponggol~broken
maporus~running away
maporus~escape
maporus~evacuate
maposonang~pleasant
mappaboa~telling you
mapukpuk~tired
mapukpuk~very tired
mapulha~collapse
mapulha~broken-down
mapulha~broken
mapultak~explode
mapultak~explode
mapultak~erupted
mapultak~break
mapuntas~explode
mapuntas~explode
mapuntas~erupted
mapuntas~broken
mapuntas~ripped
mapupu~fall out
maputput~break
maputput~fall out
maputput~uprooted
mara~danger
mara~reinforcements
mara~disaster
mara~mara
mara~disaster
mara~epidemic
marabit~dressed
marabit~get dressed
marabit~my life
marabur~teary eyed
marabur~scattered
marabur~studded
maraburan~scattered
maraburan~scattered
maraburan~falling
maraburan~running around
maraburan~scattered
maraburan~scattered
maraburan~spilled
maraburan~headlong
maradalani~undergo
maradat~civilized
maradat~polite
maradat~polite
maradatua~Hopefully
maradi~stop
maradi~rest
maradi~rest
maradi~stop
maradi~Rest
maradi~rest
maradi~pause
maradi~stop by
maradi~dead
maradi~subsided
maradi~stop by
maradi~fall silent
maradi~hampered
maradi~stuck
maradian~stop
maradian~rest
maradian~rest
maradian~stop by
maradian~dead
maradian~hampered
maradian~stuck
maradong~is at
maradong~rich
maradopan~face to face
maradophon~in front of
maradophon~in advance
maradophon~to
maradophon~to
maradu~race
maradu~race
maradu~compete
maradu~until
maradu~race
maradu~fight over
maradu~until
maradu~so that
marae~taste
maraek~wet
maraek~wash
maraek~muddy
maraek~watery
maraek~drenched
maraekaek~muddy
maraekaek~watery
maraekaek~slimy
maraekaek~damp
maralahon~cause
maralangan~unable to do so
maraleale~friends
maraleale~friendly
maraleale~be friends
marali~reply
marali~repay
maralitan~chaotic
maralitan~chaotic
maralitan~mazy
maralo~fight
maralo~collide
maralo~balanced
maralo~opposite
maralo~opposite
maralo~hostile
maralo~feud
maralo~compete
maralo~contradictory
maralo~draw
maralo~controversy
maraloalo~hostile
maraloalo~disagree
maraloalo~the cold War
maralohon~face to face
maralohon~opposite
maralohon~contradictory
maralohon~oppose
maralohon~face
maralus~there is an answer
maralus~reply
maralus~answered
marama~fathered
marambalangan~very different
marambalangan~reckless
marambalangan~chaotic
marambolongan~scattered
marambolongan~wasted
marambolongan~wasted
maramperean~spread
maramping~regardless
maramping~disconnected
maranak~give birth
maranak~flowering
maranak~have children
maranganangan~dream
maranganangan~aspire
maranganangan~fantasize
maranganangan~fantasizing
maranganangan~daydream
maranganangan~imagine
maranganangan~daydreaming
maranganangan~pensive
maranggap~stay up late
maranggap~literate
maranggi~brothers
marangkal~sensible
marangkang~berang
marangkang~brothers
marangkup~mixed
marangkup~pair
marangkup~be friends
marangkup~along with
maranjak~run
maranjak~jumping up and down
maranto~wander
maranto~go abroad
marantu~happy
marantu~happy
marantu~prosperous
marantuk~infringe
marantuk~war
marantuk~collide
marapi~fiery
marapiapi~fiery
marapiapi~enthusiastic
marapir~alone
marapu~torn
marapu~broken
marapu~ripped
mararar~abundant
mararga~valuable
mararga~fare
mararian~have an affair
mararop~hope
mararta~treasure
mararta~have property
mararta~have property
mararti~means
mararti~useful
mararti~meaningful
mararti~beneficial
maras~compassion
maras~pity
maras~concerned
maras~pole
maras~backbone
marasal~originate
marasal~sourced
marasar~nest
marasing~different
marasing~different
marasiroha~concerned
marata~vegetable
marateate~be careful
marateate~have a heart
marateatehon~pay attention
marateatehon~listening
maratur~orderly
maratur~neat
maratur~regular
marbabap~fell down
marbabap~collapsed
marbabap~collapse
marbabo~weed
marbabo~grazing
marbada~fight
marbada~collide
marbada~fight
marbada~fight
marbada~disagree
marbada~dispute
marbada~feud
marbada~quarrel
marbada~bickering
marbada~case
marbagahon~expect
marbagas~married
marbagas~marry
marbagas~have a house
marbagas~household
marbagi~share
marbahasa~language
marbahudung~ascetic
marbaju~dressed
marbaju~get dressed
marbaju~get dressed
marbaju~my life
marbalage~quarrel
marbalage~disagree
marbalik~turn away
marbalik~twist
marbalik~apostate
marbalik~backwards
marbalik~blown away
marbalikan~falling
marbalos~reply
marbalos~unanswered
marbangko~talented
marbangko~behave
marbangko~nature
marbangko~have character
marbangun~build
marbaris~line up
marbaris~lined up
marbarita~news
marbarita~tell the news
marbarita~news
marbarita~give me news
marbarurbarur~line up
marbarurbarur~in paths
marbarurbarur~wrinkled
marbarutu~bumpy
marbarutu~fine spots
marbarutu~rough
marbarutu~not smooth
marbasa~make amends
marbasa~be generous
marbatas~together
marbendungbendung~turn away
marbenget~be patient
marbenget~persevere
marbenget~self awareness
marbenggoran~bent
marbenggoran~crooked
marbeulbeul~disobedient
marbeulbeul~naughty
marbiasbias~bored
marbiasbias~dodge
marbiasbias~dodge
marbiasbias~feel hate
marbiasbias~fed up
marbilang~counting
marbilang~take into account
marbinege~can hear
marbinege~consider
marbinege~hear
marbinereng~pay attention
marbinereng~attention
marbinereng~sense of concern
marbingkas~reasoned
marbingkas~started
marbingkas~based on
marbingkas~symptomatic
marbingkas~cause
marbingkas~cause
marbingkas~has a reason
marbirungut~pouting
marbisa~poisonous
marbisa~venomous
marbisa~contains poison
marbisuk~sensible
marbisuk~wise
marbisuk~think further
marbisuk~wise
marbisuk~cunning
marbiutbiut~tangled
marbiutbiut~twisted (thread)
marboaboa~have a feeling
marboaboa~separate
marboaboa~tell
marboaboa~excuse yourself
marbobok~amazed
marbobok~astonished
marbogas~relate
marbogas~trace
marbogas~married
marbogas~marry
marbogas~Marry
marbogasma~get married
marbohabahenon~resigned
marbohi~face
marbohi~face
marboho~means
marboho~important
marbolat~bordered
marbolat~together
marbolat~separated
marbolit~complicated
marbona~originate
marbona~started
marbona~originated
marbona~tree
marbonsa~sad
marbonsir~started
marbonsir~based on
marbonsir~cause
marbonsir~cause
marboras~bear fruit
marborusborus~run as fast as possible
marborusborus~run away
marborusborus~helter-skelter
marbualbual~chat
marbualbual~chat
marbubus~leaking
marbubus~flow
marbubus~overflowing with water
marbulbul~circular
marbun~maroon
marbunga~flowering
marbunga~develop
marbungaran~develop
marbungaran~lively
marbungaran~victorious
marbungaran~prosperous
marbungaran~increase
marbungaran~increase
marbungaran~rousing
marbungaran~success
marbungaran~visible
marbungkas~move
marburju~make amends
marburjuon~make up
marburu~hunt
mardabuan~falling
mardabudabu~reflect
mardabudabu~carry out calculations
mardabudabu~considering
mardabudabu~regret
mardabudabu~ponder
mardagang~wander
mardagang~wander
mardai~nice
mardakdanak~give birth
mardakdanak~have children
mardalalan~walk
mardalan~walk
mardalan~applies
mardalan~travelling
mardalan~rate
mardalan~flow
mardalandalan~strolling
mardalandalan~visit
mardalandalan~traveling
mardalani~holiday
mardalani~going on an excursion
mardalani~go for a walk
mardalani~traveling
mardalani~picnic
mardalani~sightseeing
mardalanma~walk
mardame~make up
mardame~reconcile
mardamedame~reconcile
mardamedame~make peace
mardandi~disobedient
mardandi~defiant
mardandi~sulking
mardandi~sulk
mardandi!~sulk
mardangguran~untidy
mardangguran~bandy
mardangguran~scattered
mardangiang~pretend
mardangka~earrings
mardangka~branching
mardangka~knaggy
mardangkai~branching
mardangol~sorrow
mardangol~sad
mardangol~suffer
mardangol~sad
mardaoan~far apart
mardeka~sovereign
mardeka~independent
mardekdehan~falling
mardekdekan~fall
mardekdekan~falling
mardekdekan~smeared
mardenggan~make up
mardenggan~reconcile
mardenggan~really reconcile
mardenggan~get along well
mardengkut~bent
mardengkut~turn
mardengkut~curved
mardengkut~bent
mardeser~rustled
mardideng~sing
mardimpu~gather
mardingat~remember
mardisir~rustled
mardisir~shiver
mardohar~lucky
mardompak~face to face
mardompak~against
mardompak~against someone
mardompak~to
mardomu~join
mardomu~meet
mardomu~gather
mardomu~unite
mardomu~compound
mardomu~linked
mardomu~meet
mardomu~suitable
mardomu~refer
mardomu~compound
mardomu~meeting
mardomu~invitation
mardondam~Embarrassed
mardondam~Afraid
mardongan~friends
mardongan~friendly
mardongan~brothers
mardongan~be friends
mardongan~making love
mardongan~partner
mardongan!~be friends
mardongan?~be friends
mardongana~be friends
mardongandongan~close relationship
mardongandongan~friends
mardongandongan~dating
mardongandongan~friends
mardongandongan~brothers
mardongandongan~friends
mardongani~accompany
mardonganin~accompany
mardongann~be friends
mardosa~sinful
mardosir~rustled
mardoton~fishing
mardoton~net
mardua~together
marduadua~pair
mardugu~clash
mardugu~sleepy
mardugu~fight
mardugu~oppose
mardugu~ramming
mardugutdugut~shiver
mardugutdugut~wiggle
marduhut~grassy
mardulihon~caring
mardulihon~care
mardusa~sinful
mareak~approaching
mareak~going to
mareakhon~visit
mareakhon~approaching
marebatebat~visit
marebatebat~come
maredangedang~strolling
maredangedang~around
maredangedang~wandering around
maredangedang~going on an excursion
maredangedang~travel
maredangedang~picnic
marekrek~hurtful
marekrek~tormented
maremare~coconut leaves
maremare~Christmas baubles
maremare~Christmas tree
maremonemon~dizziness
maremonemon~apoplexy
maremonemon~headache
marende~sing
marende~sing
marende~sing
marende~hum
marende~sing
marende~sing
marende~make a sound
marepet~talkative
marepet~screeching
marerak~scattered
maretong~counting
maretong~carry out calculations
marga~clan
marga~clan
marga~last name
marga~second name
marga~ethnic group
margabus~lie
margabus~lie
margabus~outsmart
margabus~dishonest
margabus!~lie
margabus?~lie
margabusi~lie
margabusih~lie
margabusin~lie
margabuss~lie
margadapan~lying around
margadapan~falling
margadol~depend
margahu~my surname
margait~joking
margait~joking
margait~joking
margait~be funny
margaitgait~joking around
margaitgait~be funny
margalak~light up
margam~your surname
margam?~your surname
margambo~muddy
margambo~muddy
margambo~the ground is soft
margamu~your surname
margana~promise
margana~swear
margana~his surname
marganda~increase
marganti~change
marganti~changed
margapgap~lie
margapgap~lie
margara~fiery
margara~burning
margarapusgarapus~careless
margarapusgarapus~squirming
margarapusgarapus~circular
margarapusgarapus~twisted
margarar~there is a fee
margarar~paid
margarar~paid off
margareja~worship
margelleng~give birth
margelleng~skinny
margelleng~getting smaller
margelleng~have children
margelleng~shrinking
margellok~move
margellok~powerful
margellok~strong
margellok~kutik
margendos~have sex
margenggeng~pray for
margenggeng~hard
margere~joking
margeregere~joking
margeregere~joking
margeregere~joking
margeregere~prank
margilok~caterpillar
margilok~rotten
margoar~degree
margoar~branded
margoar~named
margobar~covered
margogo~Empower
margogo~powerful
margogo~powerful
margogo~persist
margogo~powerful
margogo~vitality
margogoihon~strengthen
margogoihon~depend on
margoli~determined
margoli~set
margolle~Empower
margolle~powerful
margolle~strong
margombar~photographed
margombar~pictorial
margombar~taking pictures
margondokpong~grieve
margondokpong~sad
margondokpong~gloomy
margonti~change
margorak~have a feeling
margorak~feel
margota~bloody
margota~gummy
margotai~bloody
margugu~join together
margugu~gather
margugu~collect dues
margugu~donate
margugu~joint venture
margulmit~move
margulsak~useful
margulsak~useful
margulsak~lucky
margulu~wallow
margulu~smeared
margulu~smeared
margulut~scramble
margulut~quarrel
marguna~useful
marguna~works
marguna~useful
marguna~beneficial
margunahon~utilise
margunahon~use
margundokpong~grieve
margundokpong~sad
margundokpong~gloomy
marguru~Study
marguru~exercise
marguru~learn
marguru~searching for knowledge
margusar~gather
margusting~found out
margusting~cut
margutu~argue
margutu~quarrel
marhabar~news
marhabiaran~afraid
marhabiaran~scary
marhabiaran~Afraid
marhabong~winged
marhabot~mourn
marhadohoan~dear
marhadomuan~relate
marhadomuan~merger
marhaebo~joy
marhagiot~wish
marhagiot~having fun
marhagiot~happy
marhagogoon~powerful
marhagogoon~powerful
marhahurangon~lacking
marhajabuan~married
marhajabuan~marry
marhajabuan~Marry
marhal~guard
marhalado~serve
marhalado~subserve
marhalangan~unable to do so
marhaliang~around
marhalingan~unable to do so
marhalomoan~wish
marhamaolhon~important
marhamaolhon~value
marhamaolhon~evaluate
marhambang~develop
marhamlet~dating
marhamlet~making love
marhamlet~in a relationship
marhamleti~in a relationship
marhamudahon~lightly
marhamulian~married
marhamulian~married
marhanalom~be patient
marhangoluan~pregnant
marhansit~in distress
marhansit~pain
marhansit~destitute
marhansit~miserable
marhansit~difficult
marhansithansit~sick
marhansithansit~concerned
marhapateon~end
marhapateon~ended completely
marhapateon~committed
marhapateon~way out
marhapong~hunt
marhaporseaon~believe
marhaporseaon~believe
marhaposan~believe
marhara~invite
marhara~inviting
marhareput~Afraid
marharharan~untidy
marharop~hope
marharporseaon~believe
marhasak~roar
marhasea~useful
marhasea~succeed
marhaseanghon~utilise
marhaseanghon~use
marhaseanghon~loving
marhasianhon~prefer
marhasianhon~choose
marhasianhon~prioritize
marhasintonghon~justify
marhasintonghon~admit it's true
marhasintonghon~believe
marhasoan~stop
marhasoan~stay put
marhasoan~be calm
marhasunan~end
marhasunan~decided
marhasunan~ended
marhasunan~finished
marhata~language
marhata~speak
marhata~said
marhata~said
marhata~agree
marhata~speak
marhatahata~languages
marhatahata~speechless
marhatahata~talk for a long time
marhatahata~tell something
marhatahata~grumbled
marhatai~speak
marhatai~talk
marhatingkoshon~confess
marhatohohon~justify
marhatongonhon~justify
marhatutuhon~justify
marhaujungan~end
marhaujungan~ended
marhederheder~slimy
marhehek~laugh
marhehek~chuckled
marhelhul~untidy
marhelsuk~shrinking
marhenset~joking
marhepeng~bear
marhepeng~money
marhepeng~bear
marhepeng~have money
marhepeng~have money
marhepeng~have money
marhepeng~have money
marhepengg~Money
marhetek~shrinking
marhilala~taste
marhilang~act deceptively
marhilang~cheat
marhillong~glow
marhillong~sparkling
marhillong~sheen
marhillong~shiny
marhillong~shiny
marhimpu~gather
marhinamago~danger
marhinamago~lost
marhinamago~misery
marhinamago~feeling lost
marhinorhon~caused
marhirim~hope
marhite~pass
marhite~climb
marhite~via
marhitehite~based on
marhitehite~based
marhitehite~Because
marhitehite~therefore
marhitehite~through
marhitehite~by
marhitehite~intermediary
marhitehite~because
marhobas~ready
marhobas~on duty
marhobas~serve
marhobas~prepare yourself
marhobol~immune
marhobot~overcast
marhoi~lamented
marhoi~sigh
marhojal~chunky
marhojal~clotted
marhojal~muscular
marhojal~strong
marholang~between
marholang~distance
marholong~love
marhopolhopol~gather
marhopolhopol~gather
marhorja~event
marhorja~party
marhosa~breathe
marhosa~animate
marhua~How
marhua~do what
marhua~soupy
marhua~Why
marhua~do what
marhua~why
marhua~reach
marhua~What are you doing
marhua~hit by what?
marhua~What for
marhuarar~abundant
marhuaso~powerful
marhuaso~authorized
marhumosa~breathe
marhumosa~take a breath
marhurang~reduce
marhusari~reflect
marhusari~ponder
marhusari~think
marhusari~think about it
marhusari~worried
marhusari~Afraid
marhusip~whispered
marhusor~shifted
marhusor~range
marhusor~turn
marhusor~twist
marhuta~silent
marhuta~village
marhuta~settled
marhuta~reside in
marhutik~move
mari~come here
mari~let
mariam~cannon
marianakhon~give birth
maribak~swatch
maribak~torn
maribak~rabak
maribak~ripped
maribak~torn
maridi~bathe
marigat~gapped
marigat~cracked
marigat~ripped
marigat~torn
marimbang~married two
marimbang~opposite
marimbang~honeyed
marimbang~balanced
marimbang~equivalent
marimbar~different
marimbulu~hairy
marina~thousands
marina~parented
marinang~thousands
marinduk~has a parent
marinduk~has a head
marinduk~leader
marinduk~chief
maringan~silent
maringan~settled
maringan~silent
maringan~stay
maringanan~silent
maringanan~domiciled
maringanan~settled
maringanan~located
maringanan~reside in
maringkat~bonded
maringkat~run
marinohon~notified
marinohon~see
marinong~thousands
marinsak~blemish
maripon~toothed
mariposipos~scarred
marisap~smoke
marisi~is at
marisi~containing
marisi~contain
marisuang~Ouch
marisuang~wasteful
marisuang~it's useless
marisuang~too bad
marisuang~vain
marjabu~reside in
marjabu~home
marjabu~own a house
marjabu~inhabit the house
marjagal~trade meat
marjagal~fleshy
marjagal~selling meat
marjaitjaiotan~tangled
marjaitjaiotan~complicated
marjaliotan~winding
marjaliotan~convoluted
marjaliotan~tangled
marjamita~lecture
marjamita~tell a story
marjamita~preach
marjanji~contract
marjanji~promise
marjanji~have a promise
marjanji~have an agreement
marjantan~manly
marjantan~have sex
marjantan~marry
marjarumut~blush
marjea~problematic
marjea~bad luck
marjea~get hurt
marjea~cursed
marjehe~betrayed
marjejeran~sequentially
marjenggaljenggal~hunchback
marjimbur~on
marjimbur~widespread
marjimburjimbur~blazing
marjimburjimbur~glowing
marjimburjimbur~burnt
marjogal~rigid
marjogal~seizure
marjogal~freeze
marjogal~brat
marjogal~stiff
marjogal~harden
marjoget~jig
marjoi~cheer
marjoi~shout
marjojor~line up
marjojor~in a row
marjojor~sequentially
marjombut~shiny
marjongjong~stand
marjuang~fight
marjugul~insist
marjuji~gamble
marjumpa~meet
marjumpang~meet
markarejo~Work
markarejoon~do
markassa~look in the mirror
markassa~look in the mirror
markato~chat
markato~chat
markato~chat
markato~tell a story
markawan~friends
markedan~friends
markedan~friendly
markedan~be friends
markedan~have children
markobun~gardening
markobun~farming
markombur~chat
markombur~chat
markombur~chat
markombur~chatting
markombur~hanging out
markombur~chat
markongsi~group
markongsi~share
markongsi~gather
markongsi~allied
markongsi~association
markongsi~have a group
markongsi~have an alliance
marlaba~useful
marlaba~lucky
marlaba~lucky
marlabu~gather
marlabu~anchored
marlabu~dropping anchor
marlae~be in law
marlaga~collide
marlaga~fight
marlagut~gather
marlaiar~sail
marlakku~applies
marlaklak~skinned
marlalun~joking
marlambas~relax
marlambas~be patient
marlampiran~go out
marlampiran~rise
marlamuk~mingle
marlamuk~mixed
marlananglanang~Lots
marlananglanang~abundant
marlange~swim
marlange???~swim
marlangkat~skinned
marlangkop~valved
marlangkop~closed
marlangsunglangsung~traveling
marlaoan~running around
marlaoan~travelling
marlaok~mixed
marlaok~join
marlaok~mixed up
marlaok~polluted
marlaok~not clear
marlaok~impure
marlapatan~means
marlapatan~useful
marlapatan~works
marlapatan~useful
marlapatan~meaningful
marlapatan~beneficial
marlapedang~swim
marlaslas~thinning
marlatam~sounds
marlatam~chirp
marlehet~Beautiful
marlibur~holiday
marlinang~glow
marlinang~shiny
marlinang~sparkling
marlinang~glow
marlinang~sparkling
marlinang~glamour
marlinang~shine
marlinggom~shelter
marlinggom~take shelter
marlinggom~get shelter
marlingik~hawk
marlingik~groaned
marlingkangan~peeled off
marlingkit~skinned
marliunliun~convoluted
marliunliun~doubled
marliunliun~tangled
marlobi~excessive
marlobian~excessive
marlobom~solve
marlogu~sing
marlogu~sing
marlojong~chasing
marlojong~run
marlojong~run quickly
marlolaan~unable to do so
marlolo~gather
marlomo~rejoice
marlomo~Semena
marluatluat~regional
marluatluat~area
marluatluat~according to country
marluga~rowing
marluga~paddle
marluga~row
marluga~pedaling
marluhut~gather
marlukluk~tangled
marlumba~race
marlumba~chasing
marlumba~race
marlumba~compete
marlumba~race
marlundu~sprout
marlungun~sad
marmahan~raising livestock
marmahan~herding
marmaling~turn away
marmaling~reject
marmalungun~sad
marmangmang~pray
marmangmang~determined
marmansam~diverse
marmansam~various
marmansam~manifold
marmansam~various
marmansam~varies
marmaol~bother
marmara~dangerous
marmara~bermara
marmara~struck by disaster
marmara~threatened
marmarga~surnamed
marmatean~die
marmeam~play
marmenek~shrinking
marmetmet~dwarf
marmetmet~wrinkled
marmetmet~thin
marmetmet~shrinking
marmiak~fatty
marmiak~greasy
marmian~silent
marminggu~worship
marminggu~worship
marminggu~service
marmingormingor~frenetic
marmingormingor~lively
marmismis~cheat
marmode~stylish
marmotor~car
marmotor~land road
marmotor~by car
marmuara~ends
marmudar~bloody
marmudu~nurse
marmudumudu~guide
marmudumudu~build
marmudumudu~provide
marmudumudu~nurse
marmula~started
marmula~based on
marmula~started
marmula~sourced
marmula~start
marmulia~great
marmungutmungut~grumbled
marmungutmungut~sigh
marmuni~sounds
marmuringmuring~oppose
marmuringmuring~argue
marmuringmuring~sulk
marmusik~make music
marmusmus~useful
marmusu~hostile
marmusu~hostile
marmusu~war
marmusu~feud
marmutik~flowering
marmutik~pistillate
marmutu~try
marna~on
marna~always
marnabang~What
marnabang~shave
marnampuna~entitled
marnampuna~have
marnampuna~owner
marnamuba~changed
marnangon~useful
marnangon~nutritious
marnangon~beneficial
marnangon~strong
marnatal~Christmas
marnehetnehet~constant occurrence
marnehetnehet~light up
marneponepo~dizziness
marneponepo~Dizzy
marngauk~collapsed
marngongos~whistling wind
marngongos~rustled
marngongos~wind sound
marniae~lying down sick
marniae~suffer
marniala~cause
marniala~because
marniala~caused
marniang~skinny
marniang~thin
marnida~see
marnida~look
marnidok~meaningful
marnilonilo~glow
marnilonilo~sparkling
marnilonilo~sparkling
marnilonilo~shining
marningot~imagine
marningot~in memory of
marningot~remember
marnini~squeaked
marnipi~dream
marniula~useful
marniula~beneficial
marnonang~talk
marnonang~chat
marnonangnonang~chat
marnonangnonang~chat
marnonangnonang~have a conversation
marnonangnonang~chat
marnono~squeaked
marnosan~weighty
marnosan~useful
marnosan~powerful
marnosan~beneficial
marnosan~have an effect
marnosan~diligent
marnosan~painstaking
marnotnoti~looking
marnuhor~buy
marobo~fell down
marobo~collapsed
marobo~fell
marobur~dead
marobur~die
marobur~fell into
marojakan~silent
marojakan~domiciled
marolipolip~hiding
marolipolip~hidden
marollok~having intercourse
marollok~have sex
marollok~fucking
marolop~accept
marolop~welcome
marolophon~celebrate
marolopolop~happy
marolopolop~rejoice
marolopolop~agree
maroma~thousands
maroma~have a mother
marompas~collapse
marompas~baseball
marompas~collapsed
marompas~collapse
marompas~terban
marongrong~collapsed
marongrong~collapse
marongrong~landslide
marongrong~collapsed
marongrong~collapse
marongso~broken
maronjat~crowded
maronjat~congested
maronjolan~silent
marontok~stop
maropang~destroyed
maropang~fall out
maroprop~broken
maroprop~broken
maroprop~collapsed
maropuk~destroyed
maropuk~broken
maropuk~broken
maropuk~dent
maropuk~crushed
maroroan~engaged
marorot~protect
marorot~nurturing
marorot~raising children
marorot~supervise
marorot~guard
marosak~broken
marosak~broken
marosak~damaged
marotap~disconnected
marotos~line up
marotos~in a row
marotrot~collapsed
marotrot~collapse
marotrot~give way
marotrot~collapse
marotrot~down
marotur~arranged
marotur~regular
marpaboa~telling you
marpadan~contract
marpadan~vow
marpadan~promise
marpadan~match
marpadan~agreed
marpadan~swear
marpadan~make a deal
marpadan~enter into an agreement
marpadanma~promise me
marpadenggan~repair
marpahean~dressed
marpahean~get dressed
marpahean~get dressed
marpahean~my life
marpaho~civilized
marpaho~manners
marpahompu~grandchildren
marpahu~too
marpahuak~crowed
marpaigon~Eat
marpakansi~holiday
marpakkean~get dressed
marpakkean~my life
marpalilung~virtuous
marpambahenan~do
marpamuati~understand
marpamuati~understand each other
marpananginangian~listening
marpanarihon~concern
marpanarihon~care
marpandoit~stung
marpandoit~hit
marpandoit~make fun of
marpangalaho~moral
marpangalaho~have faith
marpangalaho~behave
marpangalaho~applies
marpangalaho~behave
marpangalaho~behave
marpangalaho~have character
marpangalaho~acting up
marpangalaho~character
marpangalaho~character
marpangalu~complained
marpanganju~be kind
marpanganju~give attention
marpanganju~back down
marpangansi~lie
marpangansi~pretend
marpangansi~hypocritical
marpangansi~dishonest
marpangeol~stylish
marpangharopan~hopeful
marpanghirimon~hopeful
marpanghorhon~influential
marpangidoan~beg
marpangidoan~request
marpangidoan~submit
marpangir~wash your hair
marpangir~washing hair
marpangir~washing hair
marpangkean~get dressed
marpangkean~my life
marpangoluhon~live
marpangulahi~back down
marpansadian~end
marpansadian~stop
marpansadian~rest
marparange~behave
marparange~moral
marparange~behave
marparange~behave
marparange~character
marparbue~bear fruit
marparbuhe~bear fruit
marpardomuan~deliberation
marparjuanghon~fight for
marparohon~bring
marparsalisian~different
marparsalisian~disagree
marparsalisian~conflict
marpatupahon~serve
marpedan~friendly
marpedan~be friends
marpedan~have friends
marpelhongan~crooked
marpelhongan~hunchback
marpengkuran~bent
marpengkuran~crooked
marpesta~party
marpesta~event
marpeutan~falling
marpeutan~ravel
marpikkir~brain teaser
marpikkir~think
marpikkir~think
marpikkir~weigh
marpikkir~thinking
marpikkiran~thinking
marpilitan~awry
marpinda~move
marpinompar~bear grandchildren
marpinompar~hereditary
marpinompar~blessed descendants
marpinompar~have offspring
marpio~deploy
marpipot~stained
marpipot~guilty
marpipot~made a mistake
marpira~lay eggs
marpirang~arid
marpirang~dry
marpirang~looks dry
marpirang~dry up
marpirang~languish
marpogo~endure
marpogos~malnutrition
marpogos~running out of wealth
marpogos~destitute
marpogos~become poor
marpollung~argue
marpollung~chat
marpollung~chat
marpollung~debate
marpollung~question and answer
marpollung~quarrel
marpopar~counting
marporang~fight
marporang~war
marporang~fight
marporlak~gardening
marporlak~farming
marporlak~has a garden
marporo~hoarse
marpotongan~shaped
marpotpotan~thorny
marpuang~married
marpuang~have a husband
marpudorpudor~bent
marpudorpudor~spinning around
marpudorpudor~spinning around
marpulik~separate
marpungu~gather
marpungu~group
marpungu~gather
marpunsa~patterned
marputor~turn
marputor~circular
marrade~willing
marradopon~in front of
marragam~diverse
marragam~manifold
marragam~various
marragam~varies
marragam~complications
marramba~grassy
marramba~overgrown with grass
marrapot~how much
marrapot~gather
marrapot~convened
marrapot~negotiate
marrapot~hold a trial
marrapot~face to face meeting
marrara~blush
marrasun~poisonous
marrasun~venomous
marraungraung~sequentially
marraungraung~depend
marrenta~together
marrentaan~simultaneously
marrenteng~lay eggs
marria~happy
marria~gather
marria~beria
marria~gather
marria~deliberation
marria~docked
marria~fun
marriaria~together
marriaria~in droves
marriaria~happy
marriaria~rejoice
marriaria~general
marrikrik~disabled
marrikrik~lack
marrimpang~group
marrinda~lift
marrinda~uphold
marrindang~hereditary
marrinte~line up
marripe~married
marro~present
marroha~brain teaser
marroha~sensible
marroha~be careful
marroha~wish
marroha~mean
marroha~think
marroha~think healthy
marroha~thinking
marroha~want
marrongkap~matched
marrongkap~side by side
marrunding~agree
marrunding~deliberation
marrunding~agreed
marrunding~negotiate
marrunding~compromise
marrunding~discuss
marrungap~blown away
marrunggangan~falling
marrunggu~how much
marrunggu~gather
marrunggu~crowd
marrunggu~gather
marrupa~shaped
marrupahon~shaped
marrupahon~has a shape
marsabam~surrender
marsabam~be patient
marsabar~be patient
marsabarma~be patient
marsabung~fight
marsabung~compete
marsabung~fight
marsaburan~scattered
marsaburan~scattered
marsaburan~scattered
marsaburan~scattered
marsaburan~scattered
marsaburan~spilled
marsada~make up
marsada~mixed
marsada~join
marsada~chime
marsada~unite
marsada~unite
marsada~allied
marsada~compound
marsada~agreed
marsada~barrel
marsada~aligned
marsada~compound
marsadi~stop
marsahali~occasionally
marsahit~suffer
marsahit~suffering from disease
marsahit~inflamed
marsahit~sick
marsahit~Sick
marsaing~fight
marsaing~fight
marsak~mourn
marsak~sad
marsak~bother
marsak~disturbed
marsak~upset
marsak~angry
marsak~disappointed
marsak~gloomy
marsak~too late
marsala~guilty
marsalaan~awry
marsalasala~awry
marsalimut~covered
marsalimut~wearing a blanket
marsalisi~different
marsalisi~quarrel
marsalisi~disagree with each other
marsambar~change
marsambar~exchange
marsamboretan~untidy
marsampur~mixed
marsampur~complications
marsanding~hostile
marsanding~hostile
marsangap~sovereign
marsangap~salute
marsangap~authoritative
marsanggam~authoritative
marsangkap~aspire
marsangkap~planned
marsangkap~mean
marsangkap~interested
marsangkap~intend
marsangkap~dreaming
marsangkap~plan
marsantabi~Excuse me
marsaor~mingle
marsaor~mixed
marsaor~join
marsaor~get along
marsaor~unite
marsap~smeared
marsap~smeared
marsapata~caused
marsapata~eaten I swear
marsara~scattered
marsara~studded
marsargean~scattered
marsargean~scattered
marsargean~spilled
marsaringar~ringing
marsaringar~resonate
marsaringar~echoed
marsaringar~resounded
marsaringar~loud
marsaringkat~group
marsaroha~unite
marsaroha~seia
marsaroha~one word
marsauli~beneficial
marsege~winnow
marsege~sift
marserak~scatter
marserak~scattered
marserak~spread
marserak~disunited
marserakan~disheveled
marserakan~scattered
marserakan~scattered
marseto~Confused
marseto~understood
marseto~do not understand
marseto~do not understand
marsi~each other
marsiadu~chasing
marsiadu~race
marsiadu~competing
marsiajar~Study
marsiajar?~Study
marsiajar??~Study
marsiajari~learn
marsiajarna~learn it
marsiajarr~Study
marsiak~poor
marsiak~poor
marsiala~cause
marsiala~because
marsiala~caused
marsiallangan~cannibal
marsiallangan~fighting each other
marsiallangan~eat each other
marsiallangan~cheat each other
marsiantusan~understand
marsiantusan~understand
marsiantusan~understanding each other
marsiantusan~understand each other
marsibalos~reply
marsibolusan~pass each other
marsibuk~fleshy
marsidangolon~mourning
marsidangolon~bother
marsidegean~fight
marsidegean~step on each other
marsidengke~give
marsidohot~participate
marsidohot~participate
marsidongan~be friends
marsigaret~smoke
marsigirgir~enthusiastic
marsigomakan~fight
marsigomakan~scratching each other
marsigorgor~turbulent
marsigorgor~rages
marsigorgor~blazing
marsigorgor~furious
marsigorgor~burning
marsigorgor~steaming
marsigorgor~very happy
marsihodo~cooked
marsihodo~heated
marsihodo~hot
marsihohot~cling firmly
marsihohot~Excellent
marsihohot~loyal
marsihundul~Sit down
marsijugukan~Sit down
marsik~dry
marsik~dry
marsik~dry up
marsik~recede
marsikkola~go to school
marsikkolah~go to school
marsikkolai~go to school
marsilam~sparkling
marsilelean~chasing around
marsilelean~chasing
marsilelean~chasing
marsiletean~chasing
marsiletean~chase
marsiletean~chase
marsillak~sparkling
marsillak~sparkling
marsillam~shiny
marsillam~sparkling
marsilonging~terrible
marsilonging~silent
marsilonging~silence
marsilonging~very quiet
marsiminik~grandchildren
marsiminik~hereditary
marsimusuan~hostile
marsinalsal~brilliant
marsinandaan~get to know
marsinar~glow
marsinar~sunbathe
marsinar~shine
marsinggaluan~different
marsingkor~wretched
marsingkor~hard life
marsingkor~crisis
marsingkor~destitute
marsingkor~suffer
marsingkor~languish
marsingkor~stumbled
marsinondang~glow
marsinondang~shine
marsinondang~brilliant
marsinondang~sparkling
marsinta~make love
marsintuhu~mean it
marsintuhu~aim
marsintuhu~have meaning
marsintuhu~Serious
marsipaidaan~looking each other
marsipaidaan~let each other go
marsipal~destitute
marsipal~languish
marsipanganon~devoured
marsipanganon~eat a lot
marsipanganon~Eat
marsipature~conserve
marsipature~repair
marsipature~develop
marsipotpot~very stocky
marsipotpot~fertile
marsipsip~silent
marsipusipu~burning
marsirainan~relate
marsirainan~mutual support
marsirang~divorce
marsirang~separate
marsirang~breakup
marsiranggingan~unite
marsiranggingan~creeping
marsirarion~chat
marsirarion~chat
marsirarion~have a conversation
marsirarion~discuss
marsirarion~get together
marsirarion~hanging out
marsirarion~close up
marsirarion~face to face meeting
marsirungkaon~open
marsitalinsir~fluent
marsitalinsir~the road is smooth
marsitamitami~give
marsitamitami~present
marsitamitami~award
marsitandaan~get to know
marsitandaan~know each other
marsitaonon~mourning
marsitaonon~misfortune
marsitaonon~feel sorrow
marsitijur~drooling
marsitijur~spit
marsitijur~spit
marsitiop~hold on
marsitipahan~weave
marsituriak~happy
marsituriak~laugh
marsitutu~fiery
marsitutu~committed
marsitutu~enthusiastic
marsitutu~mean it
marsitutu~determined
marsitutu~firm
marsitutu~desperately
marsitutu~Serious
marsiuduran~line up
marsiuji~race
marsiulaon~Work
marsiulaon~on duty
marsoal~has a different opinion
marsoal~quarrel
marsoal~case
marsoara~speak
marsoara~sounds
marsoara~said
marsoara~move
marsoara~make a sound
marsoara~kutik
marsogo~hate
marsogot~be soaked
marsogot~Tomorrow
marsogot~tomorrow morning
marsogot~tomorrow
marsogotma~tomorrow
marsomba~worship
marsomba~worship
marsombusombu~let
marsonang~happy
marsonang~relax
marsonang~have fun
marsorin~change
marsoring~change
marsormin~look in the mirror
marsormin~look in the mirror
marsormin~look in the mirror
marsotingsoting~sparkling
marsuga~thorny
marsuhat~size
marsulangat~threw away the net
marsulangat~fishing
marsumbu~axis
marsumpa~promise
marsumpa~swear
marsurak~cheer
marsurak~shout
marsurasura~prejudiced
marsurasura~imagine
marsurasura~estimate
marsuri~combed
marsuru~Reign
marsuru~send
marsuru~ordered
marsusut~copulate
marsusut~have sex
marsusut~fucking
martabak~martabak
martaban~captivating
martaban~plunder
martaban~plunder
martabuni~silence
martabuni~hiding
martabuni~avoid
martabuni~swear
martaduk~sow
martagam~hope
martagan~small
martagi~charge
martahan~endure
martahi~aspire
martahi~planned
martahi~mean
martahi~interested
martahi~intend
martahi~conspire
martahi~make plans
martahi~dreaming
martahi~plan
martahuak~crowed
martali~laced
martamba~increase
martambana~increase
martambu~increase
martambu~add food
martamitami~give
martamitami~present
martamitami~award
martampahan~end
martandang~visit
martandang~come
martandang~in a relationship
martangiang~pray
martangiang~prayer
martangiang~dhikr
martangiangkon~pray
martangiangkonn~pray
martani~farming
martaon~years
martapa~meditate
martapa~meditate
martapa~ascetic
martapian~bathe
martarombo~pedigree
martarombo~speak
martaromboh~speak
martaru~gamble
martaru~race
martaru~compete
martaru~bet
martata~laugh
martata~laugh
martektekan~falling
martektekan~scattered
martembak~mean something
martembak~aiming
martembak~want
martempo~holiday
martenju~argue
martenju~duel
martenju~fist bump
martenju~fight
martenju~boxing
martida~argue
martihas~scarred
martihas~flawed
martihas~blemish
martihas~problematic
martihas~has shortcomings
martimbanghon~compare
martimbanghon~than
martinading~hereditary
martinangi~heard
martinangi~hear
martinaru~lay eggs
martindi~overlap
martindi~surpass
martindi~exceed
martinggangan~falling
martinggangan~lying down
martingki~timed
martingki~has been established
martinodohon~brothers
martitel~degree
martobo~subscribe
martohap~charismatic
martohap~rewarding
martohap~have parts
martolon~swear
martolon~take an oath
martolor~lay eggs
martolu~threesome
martompuk~clap
martomu~intercepted
martomu~meet
martonggak~upright
martonggak~fight
martonggo~pray
martonggo~convened
martonggo~meditation
martongkar~fight
martongkar~disagree
martongkar~quarrel
martongontongon~as it happens
martongontongon~fate
martongos~send
martongtang~fight
martonjan~sulking
martontang~debate
martontang~contradictory
martonun~weave
martopak~clap
martopakkon~give birth to
martopar~fist fight
martopar~boxing
martorbang~peer
martoruk~humble
martua~happy
martua~lucky
martua~lucky
martuani~give thanks
martubi~collide
martubi~compete
martubi~compete
martuduk~Eat
martuduk~bite
martuduk~breaking down the details
martugan~switch
martuhor~paid
martuhor~valuable
martuhor~set prices
martujung~hooded
martujung~hooded
martukkar~change
martukkar~exchange
martulang~say goodbye
martumba~dance
martumbuk~fist fight
martumbuk~boxing
martumbur~sprout
martumpol~engaged
martumpol~pre-wedding
martumpol!?~engaged
martumpu~gather
martunas~sprout
martunggu~charge
martungkap~face down
martungkap~hunchback
martungkup~closed
marturasi~lecture
marturasi~tell a story
marturasi~speechless
marturasi~preach
marturasi~make a speech
martutu~chirped
martutup~closed
martutur~family
martutur~related
martutur~pedigree
martutur~visit
maruap~smells
maruarar~successful
maruarar~develop
maruarar~increase
maruarar~prosper
maruarar~determination
maruarar~famous
maruari~vow
maruari~promise
maruari~swear
maruari~determined
maruarna~colored
maruba~changed
marubat~treatment
marudur~line up
marudur~long line
marudur~side by side
marudur~walking along
marudur~crowd
marudurudur~line
marudurudur~tiered
marudut~continues
marudut~continued
marugamo~religious
marugasan~treasure
marugasan~have
marugasan~own
marugupugup~roaring
marugupugup~roaring
maruhom~silent
maruhum~orderly
maruhum~judge
maruhut~orderly
marujung~end
marujung~ended
marujung~die
marujung~finished
marulak~repeated
marulang~repeated
marulangulang~adventuring
marulangulang~wandering the world
marulangulang~wander
marulaon~event
marulaon~party
marulaon~hold events
marulaon~working
maruli~lucky
maruli~get something
maruli~get
marulos~sling
marulos~covered
marulos~berulos
marulos~wearing ulos
marumpak~collapsed
marumpak~fell
marumur~aged
marumur~aged
marumur~old age
marun~fever
marun~Sick
marundar~bet
marune~Good
marune~orderly
marungkil~struggling
marungkil~fight
marungkil~opposite
marungkil~quarrel
marungkil~suffer
marungkil~sickly
marungkil~not suitable
marungrung~free
marungutungut~chatter
marungutungut~frowned
marungutungut~grumbled
marungutungut~sigh
marungutungut~grumble
marungutungut~babble
marungutungut~whining
marunsol~stop
maruntung~profitable
maruntung~lucky
marunung~apply
marupahon~is
marupak~collapsed
marurus~fall
marurus~falling
marurus~fall out
marusaha~try
marusean~wasting
marusean~scattered
marusean~spilled
marusean~spilled
marutang~owe
marutok~brained
marutokutok~sensible
marutokutok~brained
marutokutok~thinking
marutokutok~wise
marutokutok~smart
mas~gold
mas~sir
masa~applies
masa~usually used
masa~period
masa~mode
masa~moment
masa~season
masa~already occurred
masa~happen
masa~time
masak~Cook
masak~ripe
masala~problem
masalahna~the problem
masalam~your problem
masalamu~your problem
masalana~the problem
masalpuhu~too far
masalpuhu~exceed
masalpuhu~pass
masana~the time
masansan~shred
masansan~torn
masansan~ripped
masapiri~swear
masapsap~scuffed
masapsap~peeling
masapsap~scratched
masapsap~eroded
masarsar~to pieces
masarsar~split
masarsar~broke into pieces
masarsar~crushed
masi~take
masi~feel sorry
masiak~spicy
masibalagean~quarrel
masibalagean~teasing each other
masiga~shred
masiga~torn
masiga~ripped
masihohot~be precise
masihohot~Excellent
masihol~Miss
masihol~want
masihol~make angry
masihol~promote
masihol~miss
masiholnya~miss him
masikkola~go to school
masikkolai~go to school
masilbak~split
masilgang~torn
masilgang~cracking
masilpok~broken
masiltak~broken
masiltak~cracked
masipalilungan~get along well
masirang~separate
masirumput~pick up grass
masirumput~grazing
masisorbitan~sparkling
masisorbitan~sparkling
masisungkunan~deliberation
masitimbangan~balanced
massari~income
massikkola~go to school
masuak~broken
masuk~enter
masukna~entry
masurbu~burnt
masursur~landslide
mata~eye
mata~raw
matahu~my eyes
mataktak~fall
matalhus~regardless
matalpok~broken
matalpok~broken
matalpuk~dislodged
matalpuk~fall
matalpuk~fall
matalpuk~shed
matam~your eyes
matamata~wooden eyes
matamata~supervisor
matami~your eyes
matampuk~fall
matampuk~fall
matamu~your eyes
matana~his eyes
mataniari~sun
mataniari~Sun
matapor~broken
matapor~broken
matapu~skinned
matapu~plucked
matata~our eyes
matata~raw
matau~overseas
mataut~wretched
mataut~it's useless
mataut~Darling
mataut~Unlucky
mate~death
mate~dead
mate~die
mate~die
mate~died
mate~died
mate!!!!~dead
matehon~turn off
matektek~fell
matematika~algebra
matematika~mathematics
matilpok~dead
matinggang~fell
matipul~broken
matipul~separated
matitis~reduce
matitis~becomes less
matobang~aged
matobang~mature
matobang~dirty
matobang~old
matolbak~broken-down
matolbak~landslide
matolbak~collapse
matolee~have sex
matolpang~chipped
matolpang~somplak
matolpang~split
matolpang~split
matompas~collapsed
matompas~collapsed
matompas~fell
matongtong~stay
matonu~wet
matonu~wash
matopar~split
matopar~broken
matopik~broken
matopik~broken
matopik~damaged
matorangkon~explained
matoras~mature
matoras~dirty
matoras~Cook
matoras~ripe
matoras~old
matorban~collapsed
matorban~landslide
matorban~collapse
matorbanghu~outrageous
matorbanghu~too
matos~torn
matos~separated
matos~ripped
matua~aged
matua~old age
matua~classic
matua~ancient
matua~Elderly
matua~Getting older
matua~aging
matua~old
matua~soak
matua~old
matua~worn
matua~old
matupik~regardless
matutung~burnt
mauas~thirst
mauas~thirsty
mauja~speak
mauja~speak
mauja~said
maujana~audience
maujana~a gathering place
maulae~accept it
maulae~come enjoy
maulae~request
maulae~plead
maulae~submit
mauliate~Thank You
mauliate~Thank You
mauliate!~Thank You
mauliate!!~Thank You
mauliate!!!~Thank You
mauliatee~Thank You
mauliateee~Thank You
mauliateeeee~Thank You
mauliateeeh~Thank You
mauliateeh~Thank You
mauliatek~Thank You
mauliatem~Thank You
maungaung~call
maungaung~calling
maup~buoyant
maup~splash
maup~wretched
maup~drifting away
maup~lunt
maup~dead
maup~sink
maupma~die
mayakinhon~convincing
meam~play
meangeang~disgusting
meat~perched
meat~perch
mebat~visit
mebat~travelling
medan~Medan
medang~around
medangedang~strolling
medangedang~wandering around
medangedang~adventuring
medangedang~travel
medangedang~wandering around
medangedang~wander
medep~closed eyes
medep~faint
mega~apparently
mega~approximately
mekap~ornamental
mekkel~laugh
mela~stubborn
mela~Embarrassed
meldepeldep~dim
meldepeldep~faint (voice)
meldepeldep~unclear
mellak~weak
mellak~limping
mellak~lame
mellep~the light decreases
mellep~dim
mellukelluk~limping
mellukelluk~lame
melok~soft
melos~withered
memaguti~poke
memaguti~pounce
meme~food
meme~mom
memikkiri~be aware
memori~memory
memperjuakkon~fight for
menak~calm down
menak~feel at home
menak~peace
menak~silent
menak~comfortable
menak~calm
menak~peaceful
mendalani~undergo
mendat~chopped
mendat~elastic
mendat~flexible
mendat~clay
mendebal~hit
mendebal~hit
mendingan~reasonable
mendongani~accompany
mendongkol~holding back feelings
mendongkol~gloomy
mene~Okay
mene~Wait a minute
menek~small
menet~little
menga~proud
menga~happy
mengadap~facing
mengendos~have sex
menggungenggung~thin
mengkel~laugh
mengkel~laugh
mengogapi~threaten
menjojor~sort
mensur~gradually
mensur~reduce
mental~mentally
meom~stale
meong~cat
mera~red
merbas~visit
mereng~crooked
mereng~wobbly
merer~slippery
merer~flat
meret~switch places
meret~move on
meret~shifted
meret~move
meret~move
merham~glowing red
merham~red
merham~scarlet
merham~face flushed
mermer~wet
mermer~wash
mermer~gentle
mermer~fresh
mermer~cool
mermer~like
merningot~remember
mersep~dry up
mersikkola~go to school
merung~thin
mesa~hit
mesamburatan~awry
meser~lift your feet
meser~move
metep~bad
metep~with age
metep~weathered
metep~fragile
metep~worn
metmet~small
meut~gentle
meut~soft
meut~give heart
meut~likes to compromise
miak~fat
miak~fat
miak~oil
mian~silent
mian~domiciled
mian~settled
mian~stored
mian~stay
mida~see
mida~look
mida~to
midop~dim
miduk~increase
miduk~collected
miduk~collected
migar~sour
migar~stale
mihim~hypocritical
mihim~pretend
mihimmihim~whispered
mihimmihim~confidential
mijur~humiliated
mijur~humbled
mijur~lowered
mijur~down the stairs
mika~micah
milas~hot
milas~eyelash
milas~scorching
mimbar~changed
mimbar~become different
minar~glow
minar~bright
minar~cheerful
mindo~settles
mindo~recede
minggor~soft-hearted
minggor~give heart
minggor~Be patient
mingor~noisy
mingor~noisy
mingor~noisy
mingor~loud noise
minik~descendants
mintop~dead
mintop~stuck
mintop~goes out
mintop~dim
mintophon~turn off
mintophon~put it out
minum~drink
minut~minute
miok~turn away
miok~economical
mira~Rooster
mirdong~come on
mirdong~dizziness
mirdong~Dizzy
mirdong~headache
mirdong~dizzy
mirdong~headache
mirdong~stress
mirjakirjak~joy
mirjakirjak~jumping
miru~similar
mis~cheat
misang~ferret
misehu~my mustache
misehu~my misai
misena~his mustache
misena~his mustache
misir~Egypt
misir~Egyptian country
misir~move
misop~soto
moak~vomit
modat~opium
modat~monkey
modat~opium
modat~monkey
modat~poppy
modom~illuminator
modom~shiner
modomma~go to sleep
modommodom~lie down
modommodom~goof around
modommodom~lie down
modommodom~fell down
modommodom~lying down
modommodom~sleep
modommodom~Sleeping
modommu~your sleep
modomna~his sleep
modong~left
modong~stay
mogap~weak
mogap~gasped
mogap~sink
mohop~fever
mohop~malignant
mohop~stiflingly hot
mohop~hot
mohopan~hot
mohopna~it's hot
moing~spoiled
mojap~sort
mojot~withered
mojot~stagnant
mojot~suddenly stopped
mojotmojot~stuck
mojotmojot~faltered
mokmok~fat
mokmok~fat
mokmok~plump
mokmok~fat
mol~the more
molo~if
molo~if
molo~If
molo~if
molo~if
molo~However
moltuholtuk~soft
moltuholtuk~it tastes good
momar~wandering around
momar~confusion
momar~looking around
mombun~dewy
mombun~demek
mombun~damp
mombun~become cold
mombut~shrunk
mombut~Afraid
mommon~snot
mommonon~snotty
momo~lightly
momo~easy to crush
momo~soft
momo~easy
momong~stupid
momorangi~combat
momos~tied
momos~tightly
momos~strict
momos~sturdy
momos~strong
momos~truly
momos~upright
momos~firm
mompo~enter
mompo~inhabit
monang~win
monangdo~the win
monangna~the win
monding~death
monding~passed away
monding~died
monding~dead
monding~die
monding~die
monding~died
mondok~drowsiness
mondok~yawn
mondok~sleepy
mondokondok~sleepy
mondokondok~evaporate
monggihonggik~faint
monggop~get in the way
monggop~hide
mongkihongkik~faint
mongkol~cough
mongkol~mengkal
mongkol~raw
mongkus~caruk
mongkus~ravenous
mongkus~greedy
mongkus~greedy
mongkus~greedy
monis~groats
monjap~squat
monjap~disappeared
monjar~pushed
monjar~shifted
monolong~help
monsi~mouse
montan~bring
montan~bring with
montan~hold
montangiangkon~pray
mopop~Afraid
mora~situation
mora~rich
morana~rich
mordong~turn away
mordong~dizzy
mordong~turn
mordong~twist
mordong~dizziness
mordong~headache
mordong~tenggen
more~increase
more~double
morongorong~sigh
morongorong~groaned
morongorong~moaning
morongorong~neighed
morongorong~whimpering
moror~around
moror~dizzy
moror~turn
moror~slippery
moros~desire
moros~wish
morot~leave
morot~move
morot~shifted
morot~go
morot~move
morpo~reduce
morpo~recovery
morpo~recovery
morsik~pray for
morsik~hard
moru~reduce
moru~shrunk
moru~not enough
moruna~reduced
morur~dizzy vision
morur~dizziness
morus~diarrhea
morus~dysentery
morus~dragging
morus~diarrhea
mosal~famous
mosal~famous
mosar~divorced
mosar~free
mosar~open
mose~changed
mose~break the agreement
mosok~burnt
mosok~scorched
mosos~boring
motal~tightly
motal~strong
motal~firm
motolotol~try
motolotol~limping
motor~vehicle
motor~car
motor~auto
motorhu~my car
motorna~his car
mu~you
mu~You
mu~you
mu~your
muap~fishy
muap~smell
muap~bad odor
muap~smells
muara~estuary
muat~relieved
muat~understand
muatan~load
muatna~usually come in
muatna~behavior
muba~repent
muba~changed
muba~realize
muba~become different
muda~young
mudar~blood
mudarmi~your blood
mudarmu~your blood
mudarna~his blood
mudol~wealth items
mudol~capital
mudu~guide
mudu~take care
mudumudu~guidance
mudumudu~build
mudumudu~care
muit~arrogant
muit~proud
muko~advance
mula~origin
mula~beginning
mula~base
mula~start
mula~since
mulaan~start
mulaan~start
mulai~start
mulai~start
mulak~turn around
mulak~turn away
mulak~come again
mulak~return
mulak~go home
mulakma~come back
mulakma~go home
mulakna~he went home
mulaksu~he went home
mulakulak~over and over again
mulakulak~come back over and over again
mulakulak~round-trip
mulana~origin
mulana~initially
mulana~at first
mulanai~initially
mulanai~at first
mulaulaon~Work
mulbas~loose
muli~marry
muli~Marry
mulia~beautiful
mulia~glorious
mulko~advance
mulko~face
mullemulle~staggered
mullemulle~limping
mullemulle~blown
mullop~threshold
mullop~floating
mullop~appear
mullop~seen
mullop~arise
mumbang~threshold
mumbang~buoyant
mumbang~young coconut
mumbang~floating
mumbang~floating
mumut~stale
mumut~rotten
muna~you
mundar~turn around
mundar~turn away
mundar~return
mundot~sway
mundot~bring up
munggil~wobbly
munggil~wobbly hobo
munggil~doubtful
munggilunggil~wobbly
munggilunggil~crooked
munggilunggil~wobbly
munggilunggil~staggering
munggilunggil~backwards
munggilunggil~overturned
mungka~beginning
mungka~start
mungka~beginning
mungkal~open floor
mungkal~overthrow
mungkal~proud
mungkap~open
mungkoungko~cough
mungkoungko~coughing
mungkur~lime
mungkur~measure
muni~sound
munik~bear fruit
munik~thinking
muningan~How
muningan~worried
muningan~question
muningan~Afraid
muningan~ask
muningan~surprised
munsat~lift your feet
munsat~change places
munsat~leave
munsat~migrate
munsat~blurry
munsat~unplug
munsat~get it back
munsat~migration
munsat~run away
munsat~ask for it back
munsat~move
munsat~urbanization
munsol~detained
munsol~raw
munsol~stopped
munsung~muzzle
munsung~mouth
mur~the more
mura~easy
mura~easy
mura~cheap
mura~proper
mura~simple
murak~humiliated
murak~Bad
murak~Embarrassed
murak~troublemaker
murhing~pouting
murhing~angry
murhing~sour
murhing~frowned
murhing~gloomy
murhing~gloomy
murhing~mutung
murhing~annoyed
murhing~cloudy face
murmak~untidy
murmak~tangled
mursikolai~go to school
muruk~furious
muruk~angry
muruk~wait for me
murukmuruk~angry
murukmuruk~screeching
murukmuruk~grumbled
murukna~he was angry
murukni~he was angry
musa~incident
musa~number
muse~Also
muse~later
muse~return
muse~Then
muse~Again
muse~Still
muse~also
musem~Also
musengani~return
musengani~Again
musik~music
musim~season
musmus~To use
mussat~move
musu~anti
musu~against
musu~enemy
musu~enemy
muta~vomit
mutik~ovary
mutik~flower
mutik~pistil
mutmut~reason
mutmut~beginning
mutmut~dispute
mutmut~because
mutmut~cause
mutmut~form
mutu~try
mutu~try your best
mutu~diligent
mutu~willing
mutung~pouting
mutung~gloomy
na~give
na~his
na~time
na~Which
naadong~exists
naangkal~cunning
naangkal~naughty
naarta~valuable
naarta~expensive
nababan~Nababan
nabagak~quality
nabagak~the beautiful one
nabahatan~Sorry
nabalga~snapper
nabaltuhan~big
nabara~chocolate
nabegu~brave
nabisa~venomous
nabodari~last night
nabodari~overnight
nabodari~last night
nabolas~Can
nabolas~can
nabolas~capable
nabolon~snapper
nabolon~the big one
nabolon~the fat one
naboritan~hurtful
naboru~girl
nabudak~heavy
nabudak~slow
nabukbak~afraid
nabukbak~Afraid
nabung~bald
nabung~shaving
nabung~bare
nabung~found out
nabung~cut
naburju~pious
naburju~the good one
nada~tone
nadangaron~arid
nadapot~achievement
nadeba~part
nadeba~another
nadeba~which is partial
nadenggan~quality
nadenggan~wahid
nadenggan~the good one
nadinonangi~chat
nadirampus~booty
nadodong~stupid
nadua~together
nadua~the two
naduma~sufficient
naduma~prosperous
nadumenggan~superior
naek~climb
naek~go on
naek~climb
naek~climb
naek~lifted
naeng~will
naeng~will
naeng~intend
naeng~almost
naeng~want to
naeng~want to
naeng~want
naeng~Want to
naeng~almost
naengan~will
naengma~wants
naengnaeng~want to
naengnaeng~Want to
naengnaeng~currently
naga~dragon
nagabe~hereditary
nagabe~Pioneer
nagabe~rich
nagabe~glorious
nagabe~blessed
nagabe~the rich
nagabe~which become
nagabe~your Honour
nagalakan~malignant
nagalakan~angry person
nagaor~chaotic
nagaor~which is messy
nagaor~the noisy one
nagara~country
nagarang~hot
nagarang~likes to fight
nagarang~the brave one
nagari~country
nagila~Crazy
nagila~which is crazy
nagodangan~Sorry
nagodangan~which is a lot
nagogoi~tiger
nagojong~rich
nahatinggalan~backward
nahinaholongan~sire
nahinaholongan~whom I love
nahinan~late
nahinan~formerly
nahinan~A long time ago
nahinan~late
nahinan~ago
nahinan~used to
nahinan~old times
nahit~flame
nahiti~turn on
nahoda~skipper
nahoda~skipper
naholom~darkness
nahumaliang~all over
nahumaliang~around
nahumatop~as soon as possible
nahumatop~fastest
nahuoli~my wife
nai~Again
nai~that's it
nai~very
nai~Which
naibaho~naibaho
naing~will
naing~want to
nainggolan~Nainggolan clan
nainggolan~nainggolan
naingkon~Certain
naitoru~mouse
naitoru~the one below
najolo~A long time ago
najolo~ancient
najolo~the past
najolo~the old one
najuljul~indented
najungkat~criminal
nala~light up
nala~flame
nalahang~selfish
nalahang~greedy
nalahang~greedy
nalilu~lost
nalnal~can be seen
nalnal~clear
nalnal~stand out
nalnal~appear
nalnal~looks
nalnal~bright
nalom~let
nalom~resigned
nalom~trust
nalom~complacent
nalom~very sure
nama~only
nama~only
nama~Again
nama~Still
nama~just
nama~just
nama~time
namalo~scientist
namalo~intellect
namalo~interpreter
namalo~educated
namalo~the smart one
namalo~clever one
namalo~the smart one
namanghobasi~officer
namangingani~residents
namangingani~who inhabit
namangingani~who occupies
namanundati~failure
namaraleale~there
namaraleale~who are friends
namaraleale~friendly
namaraleale~who are friends
namarbaju~girls
namarbaju~girl
namarbaju~Virgin girl
namarbaju~teenage girl
namarbaju~young woman
namarbaju~virgin
namarbaju~teenage girls
namarbao~berbesan
namarbao~be in law
namardongan~there
namarhabangso~royal leader
namarhabangso~ruler
namarhahamaranggi~brothers
namarhahamaranggi~brothers
namarhahamaranggi~sisters
namarhahamaranggi~one father and one mother
namarhahamaranggi~flesh blood
namaritik~Crazy
namaritik~which is crazy
namarngingi~jaw
namarsahala~holy
namarsahala~glorious
namarsahala~magic
namasa~incident
namasa~is in effect
namasa~situation
namasa~tragedy
namasa~applicable
namasa~that happened
namatapor~cracked
nambur~water in the leaves
nambur~dew
nambur~morning dew
nambura~only just
nambura~just now
nambura~recently
nametmet~smallest
nami~we
namnam~taste it
namnam~taste it
namonang~winner
nampuna~owner
nampuna~owner
nampuna~which has
nampuna~Who has
nampunasa~the owner
nampunasa~Have
nampunasa~who owns it
nampunasa~that has
namuli~permanent
namuli~who is married
nanaeng~candidate
nanaeng~Pioneer
nanaeng~which will
nandigan~when
nandigan~When
nang~even though
nang~if
nang~Also
nang~if at all
nang~Again
nang~though
nang~also
nang~even
nang~although
nang~Which
nangaetan~tired
nangaetan~tired
nangaetan~tired
nangalian~freezing
nangalian~which is cold
nanget~fine
nanget~slow
nanget~slow
nanget~tunable
nanget~slow
nanget~slowly
nangetnanget~alon-alon
nangetnanget~Be careful
nangetnanget~Be careful
nangetnanget~slow
nangetnanget~slowly
nangetnanget~slowly
nanggo~even
nanggo~only
nanggo~Also
nanggo~even
nanggo~even
nanggo~just
nanggo~the same
nanggo~time
nanggo~although
nangkin~only just
nangkin~just now
nangkin~before this
nangkin~earlier
nangkinin~just now
nangkining~only just
nangkining~just now
nangkining~before this
nangkining~earlier
nangkiningan~only just
nangkiningan~just now
nangkiningan~before this
nangkiningan~earlier
nangkir~sense
nangkir~ingenuity
nangkohan~slope
nangkohan~incline
nangkok~climb
nangkok~climb up
nangkok~go on
nangkok~climb
nangpe~However
nangpe~even
nangpe~even though
nangpe~if at all
nangpe~nor
nangpe~although
nangpe~though
nangpe~though
nangpe~although
nania~quite a lot
nania~Lots
nania~Enough
nania~long
nania~quite a lot
nanialap~wife
nanialap~wife
nanialap~Mrs
naniambul~mainstay
naniambul~excess
naniambul~ability
nanihaholongan~beloved
naning~bee
naning~a kind of stinger
nanioli~wife
nanioli~wife
nanioli~who married
naniomo~profit
naniomo~income
nannoing~just now
nannoing~earlier
nannon~just now
nannon~earlier
nantoari~Yesterday
nantoari~overnight
nantoari?~Yesterday
nantuari~Yesterday
nantuari?~Yesterday
nantuarii~Yesterday
naoto~stupid
napal~barren
napasadahon~unifying
napinarsangapan~sire
napinarsangapan~presence
napinarsangapan~audience
napistar~scientist
napistar~intellect
napistar~the smart one
napistar~clever one
napistar~the smart one
napodo~Not yet
naporsuk~languish
naporsuk~tormented
naposo~young adult
naposo~servant
naposo~Bachelor
naposo~young people
naposo~young people
naposo~youth
naposo~young woman
naposo~teenager
naposobulung~young adult
naposobulung~young people
naposobulung~young people
naposobulung~young adults
naposobulung~young age
naposobulung~young age
naposom~Your servant
napu~humus
napu~compost
napu~fertilizer
napuran~lime betel
napuran~betel
nare~come here
nare~let
nari~Also
nari~Again
nari~Still
narintik~Crazy
narintik~crazy person
narintik~which is crazy
nariting~fierce
naro~front
naro~which come
naropuan~girl
nasa~all
nasa~all over
nasa~all
nasa~size
nasa~eldest
nasai~that big
nasai~that's all
nasalpu~past
nasalpu~ago
nasalpu~the past
nasalpui~formerly
nasalpui~the past
nasaon~like this
nasaon~that's all
nasaon~this size
nasaripe~family
nasasada~single
nasasada~who is alone
nasida~he
nasida~they
nasinonduk~husband
nasinondukna~her husband
nasip~fate
nasitoho~Actually
nasogotan~dawn
nasogotan~this morning
nasumurung~prosperous
nata~separated
nata~next time
nata~real
nata~ignored
natal~Christmas
natana~in fact
natanata~uncouth
natangkang~criminal
natar~seems clear
natar~open
natarhurung~prisoner
natarpillit~choice
natingkos~quality
natinompani~creation
natodos~brave
natodos~persistent
natodos~mighty
natonggi~sweet one
natorop~audience
natorop~mass
natorop~people
natorop~public
natorop~general
natoropi~audience
nattoari~Yesterday
nattoarii~Yesterday
natu~intimate parts
natu~dick
natu~penis
natu~penis
natuatua~mother father
natuatua~parent
natuatua~elder
natuatua~elders
natuhu~my penis
natum~your penis
natumi~your dick
natumi~your penis
natumu~your dick
natumu~your penis
natuna~his dick
nauja~Good
nauja~sweet
nauknauk~senile
nauli~the good one
nauli~the good one
nauli~the beautiful one
nauli~the beautiful one
nauli~is cool
nauli~which is solid
naumbagas~deepest
naumbalga~biggest
naumposo~junior
naumposo~youngest
naung~after it takes place
naung~Already
naung~has
naung~which are already
naung~which has
nautnaut~dazed
nautnaut~senile
nautusan~favorite
nautusan~perfect
nda~No
nda~Is not that
nda~if not
nda~right
nda~except when
nda~besides
nda~not
nda~No
ndada~No
ndada~not
ndada~gone
ndada~No
ndai~No
ndai~Is not it
ndalani~live it
ndang~No
ndang~not
ndang~unwilling
ndang~not
ndang~gone
ndang~No
ndangana~No
ndangma~no
ndangna~instead
ne~fast
ne~almost
ne~approximately
ne~quick
neang~lightly
neang~light
nemnem~tolerant
nemnem~patient
nemnem~Be patient
nemnem~steadfast
nenep~asleep
nengel~stupid
nengel~hearing loss
nengel~deaf
nengel~deaf
nenget~slow
nengneng~bandal
nengneng~Hooligan
nengneng~talkative
nengneng~naughty
nepnep~destroyed
nga~Already
ngabe~That's enough
ngaet~achieved
ngaet~tired
ngaet~tired
ngaetan~tired
ngaetan~fatigue
ngaetan~fatigue
ngail~fishing
ngal~hanging
ngal~hard to breathe
ngal~not quite enough
ngal~abandoned
ngal~not enough
ngal~not until
ngal~not completed
ngali~cold
ngali~cool
ngalian~freezing
ngalina~it's cold
ngalungalu~mom
ngalut~so heavy
ngalut~frantic
ngalut~very tired
ngalut~hard to do
ngangaetan~painful
ngangaetan~sore
ngao~feel lonely
ngao~gloomy
ngao~sad
ngatngat~bite
ngeat~bent
ngeat~curve
ngeat~curved
ngelngel~bandal
ngelngel~Hooligan
ngelngel~wicked
ngelngel~naughty
ngendul~hurts
ngendul~painful
ngendul~wrong vein
ngernger~Be careful
ngernger~Be careful
ngernger~slow
ngernger~slowly
ngiar~blazing
ngiar~loud sound
ngiar~scorching
ngingi~tooth
ngingim~your teeth
ngingimi~your teeth
ngolngolan~bored
ngolngolan~tired of waiting
ngolngolan~bored
ngolngolan~saturation
ngolngolan~long wait
ngolngolan~waiting a long time
ngolu~life
ngolu~life
ngolu~life
ngolum~your life
ngolumi~your life
ngolumu~your life
ngoluna~his life
ngolungolu~life
ngolungolu~living
ngolungolu~livelihood
ngoluni~his life
ngomngom~near
ngomngom~in front of
ngongong~stunned
ngongong~stop
ngongong~mute
ngongong~silent
ngongong~not moving
ngorngor~slowly
ngorngor~restless
ngorngor~not happy
ngot~rise
ngot~get up
ngotngot~prolonged
ngotngot~suffer for a long time
ngotngot~heart aches
ngotngot~for a long time
ngotngot~painful
ngotngot~sad
ni~That
ni~para
ni~I
nia~give it
nia~quite a lot
nian~apparently
nian~understandable
nian~That
nian~perhaps
nian~wants
nian~of course
nian~should
nian~Actually
niang~thin
niantusan~understandable
niasian~beloved
niatdo~his intention
niba~I
niba~I
nibagas~in the
nibege~heard
nidalani~carried out
nidok~said
nidok~I said
nidonganan~accompanied
nidongani~accompanied
nigoaran~named
nigoaran~I named it
nihoniho~news
nihoniho~announcement
nihoniho~announcement
niingot~remembered
nijabu~At home
nijabum~in your home
nijaha~be read
nikarejoan~done
nikmati~enjoy
nilehon~given
nimmu~you said
nimmu~according to you
ninaboan~brought
nindonganan~accompanied
ningan~earlier
ningotan~remembered
nini~great-grandfather
nini~great-grandson
nini?~great-grandson
ninna~he said
ninna~according to him
nioli~wife
nioli~wife
nipaboa~notified
nipadenggan~repaired
nipahatop~accelerated
nipatupa~provided
nipi~dream
nipi~dream
nipihon~dream
nipim~your dream
nipimu~your dream
nipina~his dream
nirasa~felt
nirasahon~felt
nirohahi~in my heart
nirohahu~in my heart
niroham~in your heart
nirohami~in your heart
nirohamu~in your heart
nirohana~in his heart
nitongos~sent
nituhor~purchased
nok~asleep
nok~restful
nok~sleep soundly
nok~sound asleep
nok~fell asleep
noli~time
nolnol~glared
nolnol~glare
nolnol~glare
nolnol~focused
noma~only
nomor~number
nomor~number
nona~fantasize
nona~dazed
nona~babbled
nona~senile
nonang~talk
nonang~competent
nonang~chat
nonang~story
nonang~cincong
nonang~chat
nonang~chat
nonang~chat
nonang~conversation
nonang~conversation
nonangan~chat
nonangan~chat
nonangan~hobo chat
nonar~bright
nongnong~immerse
nongnong~sink
noni~fun
noni~prolonged
noni~long
noni~tele
nono~great-grandfather
nono~great-grandson
nono~sleepy
nop~believe
nop~calm
nop~still
nopember~November
nosan~useful
nosan~weight
nosan~effect
nosan~strength
nosan~strong
nosan~diligent
notnot~look carefully
notnot~take a long look
notnot~thorough
nuaeng~now
nuaeng~solution
nuhaol~I hug
nunga~Already
nunga~has
nungaaa~Already
nungabe~That's enough
nungala~That's enough
nungama~That's enough
nunut~persevere
nunut~enterprising
nunut~Be patient
nunut~always
nunut~painstaking
nunut~tenacious
o~o
o~understand
o..ale~O
oak~vomit
oak~throws up
oale~O
obor~torch
obuk~hair
obukhi~my hair
obukhu~my hair
obukna~her hair
odong~direction
odor~line
odoran~line
odoran~turn
odot~press
odothon~press
odothon~emphasize
ogaoga~threat
ogaoga~shouted
ogaoga~challenge
ogaoga~threaten
ogap~snapped
ogap~snapping
oi~Ouch
oi~oh (exclamation)
oiiiamang~Ouch
ojahan~base
ojahan~base
ojahan~fundamentals
ojak~valid
ojak~stand
ojak~stand up
ojak~reside
ojak~appoint
ojak~established
ojak~nobat
ojak~official
ojak~legitimate
ojot~stop
ojoti~stop it
okema~Okay
ola~part
olap~about
olat~limit
olat~split line
olat~sleigh
olat~sue
olat~Chase
olat~until
olat~drive away
olati~limit
olati~sleigh
olatolat~limit
oleng~crooked
oleng~wobbly
olgap~greedy
olgap~swallow
oli~marry
oli~marry
olle~talent
olle~talent
ollok~suck
ollok~intercourse
olo~follow
olo~Yes
olo~Want to
olo~Okay
olo~obedient
olo~capable
olo~agree
olo~obedient
olo~join in
oloan~I obey
oloan~want
olodo~would you?
olodo~wants
olohon~follow
olohon~do
olohon~do
olohon~agree
olohon~follow
olohon~Yes, right
oloi~Maui
oloi~agree
oloi~Yes, right
oloma~that's right
oloma~go ahead
oloma~Yes, of course
olona~wants
olong~stupid
olong~stupid
olong~not agile
olong~not clever
olop~applause
olop~support
olop~welcome
olop~agree
olop~cheered
olop~accept
olope~nor
olophon~support
olophon~accept
olopolop~agreement
olting~divorced
oma~mother
oma~Mother
oma~biological mother
oma~ma
oma~mom
oma~Mama
omahu~my mother
omahu~my mom
omahu~my mom
omakmu~your mother
omakmu~your mother
omakmu~your mom
omakmu?~your mother
omami~your mother
omamu~your mother
omana~his mother
omana~her mother
omana~his mother
omar~glance
omar~confusion
omas~gold
omas~sir
omat~closed
omba~stop
omba~rest
ombak~hoe
ombak~hoe
ombaomba~butt
ombas~period
ombas~season
ombas~moment
ombas~tempo
ombas~term
ombas~time
ombas~era
ombasna~the season
ombasna~it's time
ombasna~the tempo
ombasna~the time
ombo~laborer
ombun~cloud
ombun~dew
ombus~exhale
ombus~blow
ombuson~blow
ombutombut~mud
ombutombut~crown
omo~results
omo~profit
omo~profit
omona~the result
omona~the profit
omona~Fortunately
ompaan~back
ompan~food
ompan~bait
ompang~hide
ompas~collapse
ompas~blow
ompas~fall
ompas~collapsed
ompas~bounced
ompu~grandpa
ompu~grandma
ompu~owner
ompuna~his grandmother
ompung~progenitor
ompung~engkong
ompung~grandparent
ompung~grandparents
ompung~grandparents
ompung~ancestors
ompung~ancestors
ompungna~his grandparents
ompungna~his grandfather
ompungna~his ancestors
ompungna~his ancestors
ompungna~his grandmother
ompunta~our grandfather
ompunta~our ancestors
ompunta~our grandmother
on~This
onan~market
onan~week
ondas~dance
ondas~Tortor
ondeng~only
ondeng~only a few
ondeng~just
ondeng~all needs
ondeng~time
ondi~come on
ondi~defend
ondi~protect
ondihon~come on
ondihon~protect
ondihonon~come on
ondihonon~protection
onding~hinder
onding~hide
onding~protected
onding~hidden
onding~closed
onding~invisible
ondingi~hinder
ondingi~protect
ondingonding~obstruct
ondingonding~barrier
ondok~rhythm
ondokondok~great-grandfather
ondokondok~great-grandson
ondol~Excellent
ondol~Certain
ondol~press
ondol~exposed to touch
ondol~aim
ondolan~base
ondolan~emphasis
ondolan~focus
ondolhon~steady
ondolhon~make sure
ondolhon~lean on
ondolhon~emphasize
ondop~always
ondop~often
ondop~regular
ondop~still
onggal~shake
onggal~tiptoe
onggal~upside down
onggop~intercept
onggop~snoop
onggop~take a peek
onggop~hide
onggor~snoop
onggor~monitor
ongkak~cough
ongkak~hawk
ongkal~pry
ongkal~donk
ongkal~dig
ongkal~match
ongkol~cough
ongkos~cost
ongkos~travel expense
ongkos~fare
ongkos~rent
onjap~squat
onjar~push
onjar~shove
onjaron~encouragement
onjolan~pedestal
onjolan~inhabit
onjolan~wait
onma~here it is
onom~6
onom~six
onpe~so
onpe~although
onsong~nervous
onsop~suction
onsop~kulum
onsop~suck it
onsop~absorb
onsop~pull
ontak~pulse
ontak~until
ontang~invite
ontang~invite
ontap~prevent
ontapi~prevent
ontok~stop
ontok~stop it
ontong~complete
opan~blow
opas~police
opat~4
opat~four
oppungdoli~grandpa
oraora~prohibition
ordong~turn away
ordong~dizzy
ordong~turn
ordong~looking around
ordong~around
ordong~twist
ordong~turn
organg~snapped
organg~snapping
ori~edge
ormus~congok
ormus~greedy
orngak~Afraid
oroan~future wife
oroan~bride
oroan~fiancé
oroanna~her fiancé
oroanna~Her fiancé
orom~fast
orom~resist lust
orong~groaned
orong~bark
orong~complained
orong~sigh
orong~groaned
oror~around
oror~turn
orot~shift
orpo~recover
orpo~healed
oru~not enough
oru~low
orui~reduce
oruk~loud
oruk~crowded
oruk~noisy
osang~chin
osang~jaw
osangosang~chin
osangosang~lower jaw
osar~scattered
osar~open
ose~deny it
ose~deny it
ose~change
oseon~senile
osik~nosy
osik~drive away
osikhon~nosy
osikhon~drive away
osor~shift
osor~move
otan~hold
otan~take it easy
otap~prevent
otik~chunk
otik~little
otik~a handful
otik~minimal
otik~minus
otik~A little
otik~a little
oting~A little
oto~stupid
oto~stupid
oto~stupid
oto~ponderous
oto~stupid
oto~stupid
oto~stupid
otoan~stupid
otoi~fool
otoi~hoax
otonai~how stupid
otonai~very stupid
otonai~stupid
otonai~that's stupid
otur~set
pa~right
pa~make
pa~make
paadophon~confront
paadophon~presenting
paagaaga~oppose
paagaaga~combat
paaloalo~combat
paandar~make it clear
paarsakarsak~troublesome
paasinghon~but
paasinghon~differentiate
paasuasuhon~cursed
pabadahon~complain
pabagak~create
pabagak~ornamental
pabagak~beautify
pabagak~beautify
pabagak~polish
pabagak~make-up
pabagakhon~sweeten
pabagakhon~polish
pabagakhon~repair
pabagakhon~beautify
pabagakhon~beautify
pabagakhon~decorate
pabagakhon~make up
pabagashon~deepen
pabagashon~wed
pabahir~Separate
pabalga~enlarge
pabalga~zoom in
pabalgahon~raise
pabalgahon~enlarge
pabali~chase away
pabali~fire
pabalihon~throw away
pabalihon~emit
pabalihon~chase away
pabalihon~transmit
pabalikhon~reverse
paballohon~calm
pabaltuk~zoom in
pabaltukhon~raise
pabaltukhon~enlarge
pabandothu~irritation
pabidang~expand
pabidang~expand
pabidang~widen
pabidang~expand
pabiding~pulled over
pabiding~sideways
pabiding~put it aside
pabinbin~gather
pabinbin~pile up
paboa~let me know
paboa~report
paboa?~let me know
paboaboa~tell
paboahnon~let me know
paboahon~tell
paboahon~report
paboahon~tell
paboahon~put forward
paboahon~announce
paboahon~broadcast
paboahon~voice
paboakanlah~tell me
pabolak~expand it
pabolak~title
pabolak~expand
pabolak~widen
pabolak~expand
pabolihon~wed
pabolon~raise
pabontarhon~whiten
pabontishon~strengthen
paborhat~leave
paborhaton~leave
paborhatt~leave
paborhatton~leave
pabotohon~let me know
pabotohon~tell
pabotohon~voice
pabotohon~said
pabungkas~force
pabungkas~chase away
paburbanghon~pretend
paburbanghon~raise yourself
paburbanghon~inflate yourself
paburbanghon~brag
padalan~circulate
padalan~do it
padalan~do
padalan~do
padalanhon~carry out
padalanhon~do
padalanhon~distribute
padalanhon~procurement
padalani~live it
padamehon~intervene
padamehon~reconcile
padamehon~calm
padamehon~reassuring
padamehon~reconcile
padamehon~secure
padamehon~unite
padamehon~finish
padan~rule
padan~pledge
padan~promise
padan~agreement
padan~match
padan~regulation
padan~fellowship
padan~oath
padanan~agreement
padanan~agreement
padang~mainland
padang~plain
padang~Padang city
padang~grain grass
padao~keep away
padaodao~far apart
padaodao~separate beds
padaodao~separated from home
padaodao~separated from sleep
padaohon~marginalize
padaohon~distance
padaohu~distance
padaohu~too far
padarehon~prepare
padashon~convey
padasiphon~arrange
padasiphon~close it tightly
padasiphon~compile
padatanghon~bring
padati~gig
padati~cart
padati~cart
pade~diligent
pade~neat
padear~let
padear~let
padeha~joked
padeha~buffoonery
padeha~prank
padekdekhon~drop
padekdekhon~dropped a lot
padenggan~repair
padenggan~pugar
padenggan~verification
padengganhon~repair
padengganhon~restore
padengganhon~repair
padengganhon?~repair
padengganthon~repair
padenggantton~repair
padiar~let
padiarhon~left
padidit~squirrel
padidit~jumping squirrel
padidit~squirrel
padimposhon~tidy up
padimundimun~look after
padodot~sustainable
padodot~sustainable
padodot~continued
padodot~consecutive
padodot~streak
padodot~nonstop
padohot~follow
padohot~inclusive
padohot~including
padohothon~follow
padokoni~tell me
padomu~put it together
padomu~meet
padomuhon~unite
padomuhon~link
padomuhon~bring together
padomuhon~match
padomuhon~combine
padomuhon~connect
padomuhon~gather
padomuhon~connect
padonganon~friendship
padoras~rush
padoras~faster
pados~equalize
pados~flatten
pados~match
padot~work hard
padot~persistent
padot~hard work
padot~sweat
padot~diligent
padot~diligent work
padot~persistent
padot~painstaking
padot~tenacious
padu~freeze
paduadua~together
paduadua~alone
paduadua~sanding
paduahon~second
paduahon~number two
padungo~wake
paehuta~village
paekel~laugh it off
paeleng~listen
paeleng~tilt
paelengeleng~seduce
paesahat~be delivered
paet~bitter
paet~bitter
pagalak~turn on
pagalak~turn on
paganda~copy
paganjang~lengthen it
paganuphon~sufficient
pagi~Then
pagi~future
pagian~front
pagian~Then
pagian~future
paginjang~elevate
pagipagian~front
pagira~faster
pago~stake
pago~stand
pago~border post
pagodang~copy
pagodanggodang~raise
pagodanggodang~look after
pagodanggodang~educate
pagodanghon~multiply
pagodanghon~add
pagodanghon~addition
pagodanghon~doubling
pagodanghu~most
pagodanghu~too many
pagogo~strengthen
pagogohon~strengthen
pagogohon~strengthen
pagogohon~strengthen
pagol~strong
pagomos~tighten
pagomos~strengthen
pagomoshon~tighten
pagomoshon~tighten
pagomoshon~strengthen
pagopago~giving
pagopago~percent
pagopago~deposit
pagopashon~strengthen
pagorgor~light up
pagunaguna~do
pagunaguna~endeavor
pahabis~spend it
pahabis~finish
pahabishon~sweep
pahae~downstream
pahamat~make it seem like
pahamat~consider
pahamathon~consider
pahan~shepherd
pahan~maintain
pahanan~gathering
pahani~maintain
pahantus~explain
pahantushon~clarify
pahantushon~explain
paharuar~free
paharuar~take it out
paharuarhon~freeing
paharuarhon~emit
pahat~chisel
pahatop~hurry up
pahatop~hurry up
pahatop~speeding
pahatop~drove
pahatop~faster
pahatop~step on
pahatopp~faster
pahe~use
pahe~handsome
pahean~dress
pahean~fashion
pahean~decoration
pahean~clothes
pahean~clothing
pahehe~generator
pahehe~motivator
pahehe~encourager
pahiandu~wanderer
pahibulhon~round up
pahibulhon~gather
pahibulhon~condemn
pahillong~old
pahimpu~collect
pahimpuhon~gather
pahinsa~faster
pahinsa~agile
pahinsahon~encouraging
pahinsahon~leave
paho~custom
paho~moral
paho~behavior
paho~manners
pahohom~shut up
pahojot~faster
paholanghon~distance
paholanghon~stretching
pahombar~bring it closer
pahombar~close it
pahombarhon~match
pahombarhon~get closer
pahombarhon~close up
pahompu~grandchild
pahompuhu~my grandson
pahompum~your grandson
pahompumi~your grandson
pahompumu~your grandson
pahompuna~his grandson
pahosahon~stop
pahosahon~rest
pahosahon~unwind
pahosing~reverse
pahosing~twist
pahosing~shift
pahothon~strengthen
pahothon~set
pahothon~strengthen
pahotik~reduce
pahou~stop it
pahtupa~Serve
pahu~fern
pahu~fern
pahu~ferns
pahulak~send it home
pahulakhon~send it home
pahumpu~gather
pahusor~reverse
pahusor~twist
pahusor~think again
paian~keep
paian~place
paias~wash
paias~clean up
paias~wipe
paiashon~cleaning up
paiashon~wash
paiashon~clean
paiashon~whiten
paiashon~castrate animals
paiashon~wipe
paiashon~clear up
paiashon~sweep
paiashon~purify
paida~let
paidahon~let
paidaida~see
paidaida~watch
paidaidahon~looking
paido~ask for
paido~bill
paidukhon~gather
paihutihut~follow
paijurhon~insulting
paijurhon~lower
paijurhon~condescending
pail~call
paila~humiliation
pailahon~embarrassing
pailahon~embarrassing people
pailahon~embarrass
pailahon~smear your face
pailahon~What a shame
paima~earth
paima~waiting
paima~looking forward
paima~hope
paima~wait
paima~Later
paima~Wait
paimahon~earth
paimahon~waiting
paimahon~looking forward
paimahon~hope
paimahon~wait
paimahon~standby
paimbar~differentiate
paimbar~swap
paimbarhon~differentiate
paimbarhon~sort
paimbarhon~change
paimbarhon~change
paimbaruhon~repair
paimbaruhon~renew
paimpihon~gather
paimpuimpu~collect
paimpuimpu~gather
painatupa~served
painding~pouring
painding~move it
painding~Separate
paingot~advised
paingot~remind
paingothon~advise
paingothon~advised
paingothon~appealed
paingothon~remind
paingothon~blow
paingotkon~remind
paingoton~remember
paingotton~remind
painte~Later
painte~Wait
paintehon~earth
paintehon~waiting
paintehon~looking forward
paintehon~hope
paintehon~wait
paintehon~waiting
painuhon~gather
painuinuhon~look after
painuinuhon~love
painundun~mentor
painundun~protector
paisir~distance
paitolu~third
paitolu~The third
paja~deft
pajabu~to the house
pajadihon~make
pajagarhon~beautify
pajagarhon~value
pajagarhon~decorate
pajagarhon~honor
pajahajaha~read often
pajak~market
pajak~week
pajal~weir
pajal~pond
pajal~step on
pajal~blunt
pajegeshon~smarten
pajegeshon~beautify
pajegeshon~tidy up
pajimbur~raise the fire
pajimbur~turn on
pajimput~embarrassing
pajimput~embarrass
pajogalhon~freeze
pajogalhon~refreshing
pajogalhon~harden
pajokhon~hit
pajolohon~exceed
pajolohon~advance
pajolohon~precede
pajolohon~put first
pajolohon~depend on
pajolohon~outperform
pajolohon~prioritize
pajongjong~stand up
pajongjong~set up
pajongjonghon~establish
pajonok~bring it closer
pajop~hold
pajuju~persuade
pajuju~pusher
pajuju~director
pajujuhon~direct
pajujuhon~always pushing
pajumpang~dating
pajumpang~meet
pajumpang~meet
pajumpang~meet each other
pakalahi~fight
pakansi~holiday
pakansi~holiday
pakansi~vacancy
pakemma~use it
pakke~use
pakkelalaan~feeling
pakkema~use it
pakpak~Pakpak
pakpak~skull
pakpak~peak
pakpak~top of the mountain
paksa~forced
paksa~order
pala~Beautiful
pala~giving thing
pala~sweet
pala~beautiful
pala~nutmeg
pala~giving
pala~until
pala~very
palak~annoyed
palak~angry
palak~palm
palambas~expand
palambas~loosen it
palambas~expand
palambas~expand
palambas~be patient
palambashon~expand
palambashon~a relief
palambashon~loosen
palambashon~expand
palambashon~expand
palambashon~patient
palan~Be careful
palan~Be careful
palan~slow
palan~slowly
palang~bumper
palang~dressing flowers
palang~resistor
palang~crossbar
palang~stand
palangpalang~obstacle
palao~evict
palao~drive away
palao~tell him to go
palao~drive away
palaohon~evict
palaohon~dispel
palaohon~chase away
palaohon~told to go
palas~heat
pale~beat it
pale~o'clock
pale~beat
palea~insulting
palealeahon~cursed
palealeahon~humiliating
palealeahon~disgrace
palehethon~tidy up
palehethon~repair
palehethon~beautify
palehethon~beautify
palehethon~heed
palelenghon~postpone
palelenghu~too long
palelenghu~too long
palendes~clean up
palengkethon~smarten
palengkethon~repair
palengkethon~beautify
palengkethon~tidy up
palese~pay off
palese~finish
palia~petai
palias~kept away
palilung~Budi
palilung~good deed
palilung~kind
palilung~friendliness
palimahon~fifth
palimahon~the fifth
palipunghon~clean
palito~dian
palito~light
palito~oil lamp
palito~lantern
palito~lamp
palito~lighting
palnat~wide
palnat~flat
paloas~let
paloas~allow
paloas~allow
paloas~let
paloas~allow
paloas~allow
paloas~allow
paloas~allow
paloashon~let
paloashon~allow
paloashon~allow
paloashon~allow
paloashon~allow
palobihu~uncouth
palobihu~too much
palohothon~attach
palohothon~tie
palolohon~sufficient
palolohon~make
palpal~bald
palpal~bare
palsuk~collected
palsuk~collected
palsuk~lying around
palsuk~stacked
paltak~fat
paltak~clear
paltak~strong
paltak~real
paltak~bright
paltap~slap
paltapi~slap
paltappaltap~slap
palti~suitable
palti~harmonious
palti~harmonious
palu~sound it
palu~o'clock
palua~free
palua~let go
paluahon~release
paluahon~pass
paluahon~freeing
paluahon~liberate
paluahon~strip off
paluahon~uninstall
paluahon~emit
paluahon~save
paluhuthon~collect
paluhuthon~gather
palumbang~expand
palumbang~loosen it
palumehon~keep
palumlumhon~gather
palumlumhon~docked
pamago~eliminate
pamahap~satisfy
pamahaphon~satisfying
pamaila~humiliation
pamailahon~humiliation
pamalo~teach
pamalo~teaching
pamalo~get smart
pamalosan~revenge
pamalum~chill
pamalum~healing
pamalum~heal
pamanat~observe
pamanat~look closely
pamanat~take note
pamanathon~pay attention
pamanathon~check something
pamanathon~research
pamanathon~observe
pamanathon~investigate
pamangan~mouth
pamanganmu~your mouth
pamanganna~his mouth
pamangke~user
pamangke~usage
pamangus~rogue
pamangus~robber
pamanjahaon~pampering
pamaolhon~complicate things
pamaolhon~difficult
pamaolhu~exhausted
pamaolhu~difficulty
pamarenta~government
pamarsada~unifying
pamasahon~carry out
pamasahon~enforce
pamasahon~stage
pamasahon~make something
pamasahon~organize
pamasahon~realize
pamasuhon~income
pamatang~body
pamatang~physique
pamatang~physical
pamatang~outwardly
pamatang~body
pamatang~figure
pamatang~body
pamatanghon~my body
pamatanghu~my body
pamatangmu~your body
pamatangmu~your figure
pamatangmu~your body
pamatangna~his body
pamatangna~his figure
pamatangna~his body
pamate~kill
pamate~turn off
pamatehon~kill
pambahen~maker
pambahenan~charity
pambahenan~service
pambahenan~deed
pambahenan~behavior
pambahenan~act
pambahenan~business
pambahenanhi~my services
pambahenanhi~my actions
pambahenanhu~my services
pambahenanhu~my actions
pambahenanmi~your actions
pambahenanmu~your service
pambahenanmu~your actions
pambege~listener
pambegeon~hearing
pamberengan~vision
pamboan~carrier
pamboan~carrier
pamborontak~rebel
pambungkus~wrapping
pamenakhon~reconcile
pamenakhon~calm
pamenakhon~reassuring
pamerengan~how to see
pamerengan~view
pamian~keep
pamikkiron~thinking
pamilian~election
pamilliton~election
paminar~brighten up
paminar~cheer up
paminsangon~rule
paminsangon~way of punishing
paminsangon~punitive thing
paminsangon~law
paminsangon~punishment
paminsangon~reprimand
paminsangon~reprimand
pamintop~turn off
pamintop~put it out
pamintop~dim it
pamiokhon~turn away
pamiokhon~turn something away
pamiu~spinner
pamodai~advisor
pamomoshon~confirmed
pamomoshon~tighten
pamondur~commander
pamonggolon~cutting
pamorsik~strengthen
pamoru~reduce
pampataron~explanation
pampe~lifted
pampe~crowned
pamuati~understand
pamuli~get married
pamuli~get married
pamulian~get married
pamungka~beginning
pamungka~opener
pamungka~opening
pamungka~inventor
pamurunan~kitchen
pamurunan~fire installation
pamurunan~fireplace
pamurunan~burning place
pamurunan~kitchen stove
pamusatan~core
pamusatan~conclusion
pamusatan~main problem
pamusuk~leader
panagaman~conjecture
panagaman~guess
panagamnagaman~hope
panagamnagaman~are waiting
panagamon~hope
panagamon~hope
panahani~guarantee
panahani~underwriter
panaharan~dam
panaharan~containment
panaharan~pond
panahit~contagious
panahit~have worms
panahit~turn on
panahit~disease
panahiton~sick
panaili~way of looking
panaili~view
panaili~vision
panailian~ignore
panailian~view
panailian~view
panalnalhon~explain
panalom~let
panalom~complacent
panambai~addition
panampilan~appearance
panamun~rogue
panamun~robber
panangga~dog
panangi~listener
panangian~hearing
pananginangi~listener
pananginangi~eavesdropper
panangkasion~explanation
panangko~jumping squirrel
panangko~bastard
panangko~bandits
panangko~thief
panangko~thief
panangko~arm length
panangko~thief
panangko~shoplifter
panangko~criminal
panangko~mugger
panangko~rogue
panangkup~catcher
pananom~grower
pananom~burial
panapol~binder
panarang~handler
panarang~antidote
panarion~management efforts
panarion~affairs
panaritaan~regret
panaritaanmu~your suffering
panaru~introduction
panaru~sender
panataon~statement
panatapan~view
panatapan~staring place
pancarihon~work
pancarihon~work
pandaho~accuser
pandaho~fraudster
pandaian~sense of taste
pandaian~sense of taste
pandaian~tongue
pandaian~tasting
pandaian~taster
pandaian~feeling
pandais~paintbrush
pandais~dauber
pandais~pencil
pandalan~pedestrian
pandalani~Explorer
pandalani~convey
pandan~pandan
pandaoni~doctor
pandaoni~health doctor
pandaoni~cure
pandaoni~antidote
pandaoni~healer
pandaoni~physician
pandapaton~income
pandapot~article
pandapot~proposition
pandapot~idea
pandapot~comment
pandapot~input
pandapot~opinion
pandapot~suggested
pandapot~proposal
pandapotan~income
pandapotan~income
pandapotan~income
pandaraman~livelihood
pande~expert
pande~interpreter
pande~mechanic
pande~mechanic
pande~smart
pande~clever
pande~skilled
pande~craftsman
pandengganan~repair
pandidihon~bathing matters
pandidihon~bathing
pandidion~baptism
pandidion~baptism
pandidion~baptism
pandilat~sycophant
pandilati~sycophant
pandiloan~my heart
pandiori~searcher
pandirihon~stand up
pandirihon~set up
pandis~clean
pandita~missionary
pandita~pastor
pandita~bachelor
pandobo~rapist
pandobo~persecutor
pandobo~looter
pandobo~rogue
pandobo~torturer
pandobo~robber
pandoit~stinger
pandoit~a kind of bee
pandoit~wasp
pandoit~stinging wasp
pandok~said
pandok~according to
pandok~opinion
pandok~order
pandok~designation
pandok~saying
pandokan~term
pandokan~sentence
pandokan~pronunciation
pandokan~words
pandokan~suggestion
pandokan~saying
pandokma~say it
pandokmu~your words
pandokna~according to him
pandokna~his words
pandongani~companion
pandonganon~friendship
panduda~pounder
pandudaan~mortar
pandudaan~pounding place
panduduran~disposal
panduloan~my heart
pandungdungion~achievement
pandungdungion~achievement
pandungdungion~outreach
pane~lightning
paneatan~incision scar
paneatan~cutting file
paneatan~pieces
paneatan~butchery
paneatan~incision
paneatan~piece
panegai~troublemaker
panegai~destroyer
panepane~fever
panepane~typhus
panesa~forgiving
panesa~forgiveness
panesa~eraser
pang~brave
pang~mature
pang~pray for
pang~hard
pang~dirty
pang~strong
pang~capable
pang~liquor
pang~capable
pangabahan~culture
pangabahan~it becomes
pangabahan~income
pangabakan~well-being
pangabakan~profit
pangabakan~income
pangabati~barrier
pangabati~inhibitor
pangadang~trotter
pangadang~Explorer
pangadang~convey
pangago~liar
pangago~distractor
pangago~fraudster
pangago~destroyer
pangahaporseaon~believe
pangajar~Teacher
pangajar~builder
pangajar~teacher
pangajari~Teacher
pangajari~builder
pangajari~teacher
pangajarion~how to teach
pangajarion~teaching
pangajian~knowledge
pangajian~skill
pangajian~cleverness
pangajian~knowledge
pangalaho~morals
pangalaho~the matter sits
pangalaho~faith
pangalaho~behavior
pangalaho~character
pangalaho~temperament
pangalaho~behavior
pangalaho~treatment
pangalaho~characteristic
pangalaho~habit
pangalaho~Act
pangalaho~behavior
pangalaho~act
pangalahohi~my behavior
pangalahohi~my nature
pangalahohu~my behavior
pangalahohu~my nature
pangalahom~your behavior
pangalahom~your nature
pangalahomi~your behavior
pangalahomi~your nature
pangalahomu~your behavior
pangalahomu~your nature
pangalahona~his behavior
pangalahona~his behavior
pangalahona~its nature
pangalahoni~his behavior
pangalahoni~its nature
pangalangka~stepper
pangalangka~deed
pangalangka~behavior
pangalangkop~closing
pangalangsung~traveler
pangalansum~liar
pangalansum~fraudster
pangalapu~paintbrush
pangalapu~pencil
pangalaum~rogue
pangalaum~usurper
pangaleanan~giving
pangalehonna~his gift
pangalehonon~giving
pangali~chill
pangalit~style
pangalit~animal tongue
pangallang~eater
pangallung~carrier
pangallung~bearer
pangalo~enemy
pangalo~contrarian
pangalo~rebel
pangalo~challenger
pangalo~opponents
pangalo~battle weapons
pangalo~likes to fight
pangalola~barrier
pangalola~barrier
pangalompaan~pot
pangalompaan~stew
pangalompaan~cooking stove
pangalualuan~advisor
pangalualuan~protector
pangalualuan~helper
pangalualuan~place to complain
pangaluaran~expenditure
pangaluga~rower
pangalului~hunter
pangalului~searcher
pangalusina~the answer
pangalusion~answer
pangalusionna~the answer
pangambat~barrier
pangambat~inhibitor
pangambati~barrier
pangambe~wave
pangambe~waver
pangampirhon~almost
pangampirhon~feel the benefits
pangampunan~Sorry
pangampunan~forgiveness
pangan~Eat
panganan~food
panganon~food
pangansi~hypocrite
pangansi~liar
pangansi~fraudster
pangansion~hypocrisy
pangansion~hypocritical
pangansion~fraud
pangantusion~understanding
pangantusion~interest
pangantusion~comprehension
pangantusion~understanding
pangantusion~practice
pangantusion~understanding
pangaot~Explorer
pangaot~convey
pangaotaot~Explorer
pangaotaot~convey
pangapudian~Finally
pangapudian~future
pangapudian~the end
pangapul~entertainer
pangarahut~binder
pangaramotion~supervision
pangaramotion~guarding
pangaramotion~protection
pangaranapon~view
pangaranto~nomad
pangarantoan~overseas
pangarapoton~meeting
pangardang~poetry maker
pangardang~singer
pangardang~traveling singer
pangardang~hummer
pangaribuan~pangaribuan clan
pangaribuan~pangaribuan
pangarimangon~weigh
pangarimpunan~overview
pangarimpunan~conclusion
pangarimpunan~closing
pangarimpunan~summary
pangarompak~rogue
pangarompak~attacker
pangarompak~robber
pangarorot~nanny
pangarorot~guard
pangarunding~prophet
pangarunding~prophet
pangarunding~fortune-teller
pangarundingan~forecast
pangarundingon~forecast
pangemor~bandits
pangeol~style
pangeol~contortion
panggabean~Panggabean clan
panggabean~Panggabean
panggadis~seller
panggadisan~sale
panggalang~philanthrope
panggalang~support
panggalang~supporter
panggalang~supporter
panggalang~contributor
panggang~roast
panggantina~compensation
panggapgap~false
panggar~praise
panggaron~patenteng
panggeno~destroyer
panggoaran~alias
panggoaran~title
panggoaran~nickname
panggomgom~government
panggomgom~ruler
panggomgomi~official
panggomgomi~government
panggonti~replacement
panggoraon~topic of conversation
panggoraon~screech
panggoraon~gossip
panggotapan~cutting
panggu~hoe
panggu~hoe
panggu~jungle
panggul~pelvis
panggul~butt
panggul~hips
panggulmiton~propulsion
panggulmiton~journey
panggung~Hill
panggung~stack
panggung~mounds of earth
pangguruan~orientation center
pangguruan~example
pangguruan~which determine
panggutaguta~fraudster
panghaling~barrier
panghaling~inhibitor
panghallung~carrier
panghallung~bearer
panghallung~axle
panghantuson~explanation
panghapit~gapit
panghapit~clothespin
pangharopon~hope
pangharuaron~expenditure
panghaseaon~use
panghaseaon~income
panghasoloman~fan
panghatai~speaker
panghatai~pronouncer
panghataion~dialog
panghataion~chat
panghataion~chat
panghataion~talk
panghataion~talks
panghataion~pronunciation
panghataion~conversation
panghataion~conversation
panghataion~words
panghedek~sycophant
panghelung~searcher
panghilala~taste
panghilalaanhi~my feelings
panghilalaanhu~my feelings
panghilalaanmi~your feelings
panghilalaanmu~your feelings
panghilalaanna~his feelings
panghilalaon~feeling
panghiriman~hope
panghirimon~hope
panghobason~service
pangholangkon~separate
panghole~rower
panghophopon~dedication
panghophopon~devotion
panghophopon~sacrifice
panghorhon~consequence
panghorhon~impact
panghorhon~influence
panghorhon~reason
panghorhonna~as a result
panghuaso~ruler
panghulingi~talk to me
panghulingi~who?
panghulingi~scold
panghulingmu~you talk
panghulingna~he spoke
panghulingna~way of speaking
pangiburu~jealous
pangido~advised
pangido~ask for
pangidoan~please
pangidoan~request
pangidoan~application
pangidoan~order
pangidoan~suggestion
pangidoan~offer
pangidoan~suggested
pangidoan~proposal
pangidoanmi~your request
pangidoanmi~your request
pangidoanmu~your request
pangidoanmu~your request
pangihut~follower
pangimbaron~difference
pangimbung~desire
pangimbung~lust
pangimbung~lust
pangimbungna~his lust
pangingani~residents
pangingkat~binder
pangingoton~commemorate
panginona~efficacy
panginona~influence
panginsu~traitor
panginsua~foreigners
panginsua~trade person
panginsua~outsider
panginsua~passenger
pangintubu~Mother
pangintubu~biological mother
pangintubu~who gave birth
panginuman~former drink
panginuman~cup
panginuman~glass
panginuman~drinking places
pangir~washing hair
pangiranan~field
pangiranan~swamp
pangiranan~land
pangiringngiring~protector
pangisi~residents
pangisi~filler
pangituai~community leaders
pangituai~chairman
pangituai~figure
pangkal~principal capital
pangkal~principal
pangkal~principal money
pangkarat~biter
pangkarat~sharp
pangkat~position
pangkat~rank
pangkat~status
pangke~Good
pangke~Beautiful
pangke~beautiful
pangke~use
pangkean~clothes
pangkehelai~humiliation
pangkema~use it
pangkilaan~feeling
pangkirimon~hope
pangkirimon~hope
pangkur~hoe
pangkur~hoe
pangkurna~the hoe
panglaean~fan
panglima~commander
pangobat~healer
pangobati~witch doctor
pangolat~slash
pangolat~barrier
pangolat~herding
pangolat~plaintiff
pangoli~permanent
pangoli~bride
pangoli~groom
pangoli~bride
pangoli~groom
pangoloion~things according to
pangoloion~obedience
pangoloion~obedience
pangoloion~obey
pangoloion~agreement
pangolu~turn it on
pangoluhon~let live
pangoluhon~look after
pangoluhon~turn on
pangomoan~profit
pangomoan~profit
pangomoan~luck
pangonai~consequence
pangonai~thing of action
pangondi~protector
pangondi~protector
pangondian~defender
pangondian~lawyer
pangondian~protection
pangondian~protection
pangondianon~intercession
pangondong~bribery thing
pangondong~greeting
pangondong~bribe
pangotootoi~fools
pangotootoi~blackmailer
pangotootoi~distractor
pangotootoi~scoundrel
pangotootoi~fraudster
pangpang~paralysed
pangrimpunan~closing
pangsiun~pension
pangubat~healer
pangubati~medical expert
pangubati~doctor
pangubung~turn on
pangubung~life giver
pangubung~source of life
panguduti~successor
panguduti~connector
panguhuman~punishment
pangujungi~closing
pangujungi~final
pangukkur~gauge
pangukur~gauge
pangula~farm workers
pangula~assembly
pangula~worker
pangula~farming work
pangula~waiter
pangula~servant
pangula~farmer
pangula~wages
pangulima~commander
pangullus~puff
pangullus~blower
pangullus~blow
pangulu~village head
pangulu~village head
pangulu~mediator
pangulu~chief
pangulu~intermediary
pangulugul~fight
pangulugul~quarrel
pangulugul~conflict
pangunjunan~temptation
pangunjunan~seduction
pangunsandean~backup
pangunsandean~boarding school
pangunsandean~backrest
pangunsandean~place of support
pangunsandean~focus
pangurdot~movement
pangurdot~mover
pangurupi~waiter
pangurupi~servant
pangurupi~helper
pangurupion~charity
pangurupion~help
pangurupion~donation
pangurupion~donation
pangurupion~shipyard
pangurupion~service
pangurupion~help
pangurupion~support
pangurupion~subsidy
pangurupion~donation
pangurupion~zakat
pangurupionmu~your help
pangurupionmu~your help
pangus~eaten
pangus~robber
pangus~arbitrarily
pangusehon~spill
pangusung~carrier
pangusung~carrier
paniala~curse
paniaran~wife
paniaran~wife
paniaran~wife
paniaran~married wives
panihohon~rebuked
panimpulan~end
panimpulan~the end
panimpulan~closing
panimpulan~solution
panimpulan~Now
panimpuli~end of event
panimpuli~youngest child
panimpuli~conclusion
panimpuli~final
panimpus~wrapping
paninggalan~Widow
paninggalan~legacy
panipu~loser
panipu~fraudster
panirang~separator
paniroi~advisor
paniroi~supervisor
paniroi~elders
panisahat~be delivered
panjaga~guard
panjaha~reader
panjaitan~panjaitan
panjaja~invaders
panjalo~recipient
panjaloon~reception
panjaloon~welcome
panjangkon~container
panjangkon~recipient
panjangkon~greeter
panjangkonon~shelter
panjangkonon~reception
panjangkonon~confession
panjangkonon~reception
panjar~punjar
panjar~advance
panjar~down payment
panjarum~thread
panjouon~calling
panjuhuti~dowry
panjuhuti~dowry
panodo~voters
panodo~pointer
panogu~understanding
panogu~mentor
panogu~builder
panogu~towing
panogu~guide
panolai~intermediary
panolai~separator
panolangi~reserve
panolong~helper
panolopion~agreement
panolsolion~regret
panomba~devotee
panombaon~worship
panombosan~release
panombosan~target of anger
panombuhon~grow
panompa~creator
panompa~who makes
panompang~passenger
panompaon~creation
panompaon~thing of making
panona~order
panonaan~intermediary
panondang~illuminator
panondang~shiner
panondang~Sleep
panonggor~vision
panongko~bully
panongko~fraudster
panongosan~introduction
panongosan~delivery
panongosan~custody
panongosan~shipping intermediary
panopa~forge
panopano~pimple
panopano~tinea versicolor
panopotion~confession
panoranginhon~explained
panorangion~lecture
panorangion~lighting
panorangion~explanation
panorangion~instruction
panoroni~second wife
panoroni~remarried
panoroni~replacement
panoroni~step
panortor~dancer
panosa~eraser
panotnoti~keep looking
panotnoti~take a look
panotnoti~take a long look
panotnoti~look carefully
panotnoti~look at it
panotnoti~thorough
pansa~stage
pansa~stage
pansa~terrace
pansamotan~income
pansang~install
pansang~establish
pansar~Far
pansar~around
pansar~wide
pansar~squirt
pansar~blurted out
pansar~spray
pansar~spread
pansarian~livelihood
pansarian~speculate
pansarian~livelihood
pansarian~income
pansidungi~solution
pansidungi~Now
pansing~rinse clean
pansing~disappeared
pansing~disappear
pansing~destroyed
pansing~disappeared
pansurbuon~burning
pantang~forbidden
pantang~prohibition
pantang~abstinence
pantarpantar~floor
pantas~competent
pantas~proper
pantasdo~is it appropriate?
pantasdo~appropriate
pantom~spear
pantom~stab
pantun~civilized
pantun~civilized
pantun~urbane
pantun~well behaved
pantun~respect
pantun~Honest
pantun~courtesy
pantun~polite
pantun~politeness
pantunma~be honest
panudu~pointer
panuhari~the opposite
panuharma~the opposite
panuhat~gauge
panuhoran~purchase
panumpak~servant
panumpak~approval
panumpang~passenger
panungkup~closing
panungkupon~closing
panungkus~wrapping
panuppang~passenger
panurat~stationery
panurat~scribe
panurat~clerk
panurat~painter
panurat~note taker
panurat~draftsman
panurat~writer
panurat~secretary
panurat~loyal effort
panurgasi~executor
panurgasi~advice giver
panurgasi~advisor
panurgasi~officer
panurirang~prophet
panurirang~prophet
panutungan~burnt
panutungon~burning
panuturi~defender
panuturi~advisor
panuturi~stylist
paodong~let
paodonghon~look after
paodonghon~guard
paojakhon~appoint
paojakhon~create foundations
paojakhon~establish
paojakhon~put
paojakhon~set
paojakhon~immortalize
paojakhon~validate
paojakhon~strengthen
paojakhon~enthrone
paojakhon~formalize
paojakhon~confirmation
paojothon~stop
paok~stupid
paolooloi~follow
paomba~stop
paomba~rest
paontok~dry
paontok~stop
paopathon~fourth
paorot~shift
paorot~slide it
paosor~shifted
paosor~move
paotik~reduce
paotik~subtract
paotooto~stupid
paotooto~hoax
paotootohon~make fun
paotootohon~cheat
papa~tangled
papak~unable to do so
papak~hindered
papan~board
papatar~explain
papatar~explain
papatarhon~explained
papatarhon~explain
papatarhon~state
papatehon~decide
papatehon~validate
papatehon~end
papeakhon~lay it down
papeakhon~lay it down
papeakhon~put it down
papi~realize
papi~thoroughly
papi~thorough
papilithon~divert
papilithon~divert targets
papirhon~harden
papisikhon~cut
papitahon~clean
papitahon~purify
paporsukporsukhon~bother
paporsukporsukhon~hurt
paporsukporsukhon~miserable
paporsukporsukhon~excruciating
paporsukporsukhon~pretend to be miserable
papos~sure
paposhon~convincing
papuas~satisfy
papuashon~satisfying
papulik~separate
papulik~Separate
papulik~set it aside
papulikhon~marginalize
papulikhon~separate
papulikhon~alienate
papulikhon~special
papulikhon~set aside
papungu~gather
papungu~collect
papungu~quote
papunguhon~collect
papunguhon~gather
papunguhon~quote
papurguk~collect
papurguk~pile it up
papurgukhon~make a pile
papurgukhon~gather
papurgukhon~hoard
papurgukhon~pile up
par~identity
par~complement to the perpetrator
par~original clue
para~tall
parabitan~waist
parabiton~get dressed
parabiton~my life
paradangadang~traveler
paradangadang~wanderer
paradangadangan~travel
paradangadangan~wandering
paradangadangan~odyssey
paradangadangan~overseas
paradaton~rule
paradaton~norm
paradaton~implementation of customs
parade~serve
parade~prepare
paradehon~sour
paradehon~arrange
paradehon~serve
paradehon~serve
paradehon~provide
paradehon~prepare
paradehon~prepare
paradianan~dismissal
paradianan~stopover
paradianan~rest area
paradianan~stopping place
paradianan~resting place
paradihon~stop it
paradongan~sufficient
paradongan~prosperous
paradongan~people are
paradongan~the rich
paradopon~confront
parae~taste
paraeon~feeling
paragatan~board
parago~deny it
paragohon~deny
paragohon~deny
parajurit~soldier
parajurit~soldier
paralealean~friendship
paralealean~friendship
paralealeon~friendship
paralealeon~friendship
paralealeon~friendship
paraloan~competition
paraloan~battlefield
paraloan~resistance
paraloan~hostility
paraloan~enmity
paraloan~match
paraloan~battle
paraloan~contradiction
paramehon~enliven
parana~youth
parang~machete
parang~machete
parangan~army
parangan~troops
parangan~soldier
parangan~soldier
parange~behavior
parange~moral
parange~temperament
parange~characteristic
parange~behavior
parangehu~my behavior
parangehu~my temperament
parangehu~my nature
parangem~your behavior
parangem~your nature
parangemi~your behavior
parangemi~your temperament
parangemi~your nature
parangemu~your behavior
parangemu~your temperament
parangemu~your nature
parangena~his behavior
parangena~his temperament
paranggap~companion
paranggap~guard
paranggap~waiter
paranginanginan~Rest area
parangkal~cunning
parangkal~cunning person
parangkal~organizer
parangkal~fraudster
parangkal~character
parantanan~dose
parao~ark
parapat~bring it closer
parapat~Parapat city
parapat~parapat clan
parapat~surname
parapat~parapat
parapat~a type of bamboo
parapion~fireplace
parappotan~togetherness
parartaon~riches
parasian~mercy
parasian~loved
parasingan~difference
parateatehon~monitor
parateatehon~take note
parateatehon~take a look
paratur~rule
paratur~regularity
parau~boat
parau~boat
parbadaan~commotion
parbadaan~debate
parbadaan~fight
parbadaan~resistance
parbadaan~dispute
parbadaan~enmity
parbadaan~problem
parbadaan~quarrel
parbadaan~contradiction
parbadaan~dispute
parbadia~holy
parbadia~glorious
parbadia~holy
parbadiai~sanctify
parbadiai~glorify
parbadiai~witness it
parbaga~expect
parbaga~guess
parbaga~expect
parbagasan~the inside part
parbagasan~inland
parbagasan~housing area
parbagason~marriage
parbagason~wedding
parbajo~rogue
parbajo~robber
parbalian~farmer
parbalohan~border
parbalokan~border
parbandaan~grave
parbandaan~burial ground
parbarani~fierce
parbargak~coward
parbaritaon~news
parbegu~infidel
parbegu~unbelievers
parbegu~idol worshiper
parbeguan~sacred
parbeguan~ghost place
parbiar~Coward
parbidoan~House
parbilangon~calculation
parbinege~hearing
parbinegean~sense of hearing
parbinegean~ear
parbinegean~hearing
parbinegean~ear
parbinoto~smart people
parbinoto~psychic
parbinoto~educated
parbinotoan~knowledge
parbinotoan~Science
parbinotoan~knowledge
parbodarian~lodging
parbodarian~place to stay overnight
parbodarian~places to stay
parbogason~connection
parbogason~engagement
parbolatan~border
parbolatan~split
parboniaga~trader
parboniaga~businessman
parboniaga~merchant
parboniagaan~trading
parbonjoran~stopover
parbonsiran~reason
parbonsiran~reason
parborhat~leave
parbornginan~hotel
parbornginan~motel
parbornginan~lodging
parbornginan~overnight
parbornginan~place to stay overnight
parbornginan~places to stay
parbuaton~is at
parbuaton~wealth
parbue~rice
parbue~fruit
parbue~fruits
parbue~grain
parbue~results
parbuena~the fruit
parburjuon~repair
pardagingon~crewman
pardagingon~physique
pardagingon~physical
pardagingon~material
pardagingon~physicality
pardagingon~stature
pardagingon~body
pardalanan~circulation
pardalanan~journey
pardalananna~his journey
pardalani~traveler
pardalani~adventurer
pardamean~peace
pardameon~peace
pardangolan~suffering
pardengaran~hearing
pardenggan~peace
pardengganan~kind
pardengganan~harmony
pardengganan~peace
pardengke~fisherman
pardengke~fish catcher
pardengke~fish breeder
pardibagas~wife
pardibagas~wife
pardideng~singer
pardihuta~wife
pardihuta~wife
pardijabu~wife
pardijabu~wife
pardijabu~wife
pardijabuhu~my wife
pardijabuhu~my wife
pardijabuku~my wife
pardiruma~wife
pardiruma~wife
pardiruma~hostess
pardolohan~mountains
pardolokan~mountains
pardompahan~forehead
pardompahan~forehead
pardompahan~forehead
pardompahanna~his forehead
pardompahanna~his forehead
pardompahanna~his forehead
pardompakan~forehead
pardompakan~forehead
pardomuan~discussion
pardomuan~peace
pardomuan~union
pardomuan~meeting
pardomuan~meeting place
pardongan~friend
pardongan~accompany
pardonganan~friendship
pardonganan~friendship
pardongani~accompany
pardonganon~connection
pardonganon~friendship
pardonganon~unity
pardonganon~brotherhood
pardonganon~friendship
pardonganon~kinship
pardonganonn~friendship
pardosa~sinner
pardosa~sinful
parduan~part
parduan~flock
parduli~care
pardulihon~care
pareak~come
pareak~visit
pareak~watching people
pareak~approaching
pareak~marry
pareakhon~marry a widow
pareakhon~visit
pareakhon~going to
paredang~traveler
paredang~wanderer
paredang~Explorer
paredang~adventurer
paredang~convey
paredang~traveler
paredangedang~traveler
paredangedang~wanderer
paredangedang~Explorer
paredangedang~adventurer
paredangedang~convey
paredangedang~traveler
pareman~thug
parende~artist
parende~singer
parende~singer
parende~singer
parende~singer
parende~vocalia
parende~vocalist
parengkelhon~laugh it off
parenta~command
parenta~order
parenta~commandment
parentahon~sour
parentahon~disciplined
parentahon~tidy up
parentahon~arrange
parentahon~command
parentahon~assign
pareso~set
pareso~study
pareso~control
pareso~control
pareso~correct
pareso~check
pareso~study
pareso~investigate
paresohon~sour
paresohon~fix
paresohon~tidy up
paresohon~inspect
paresohon~arrange
paresohon~provide
paresohon~prepare
paresohon~get it checked
paret~ditch
paret~drain
paretongan~calculation
pargabus~two-faced
pargabus~stupid
pargabus~liar
pargabus~liar
pargabus~distractor
pargabuson~lie
pargaitna~he joked
pargaitna~miss
pargalumbus~liar
pargana~form
pargana~facial appearance
pargapgap~false
pargapgap~liar
pargapgap~liar
pargaulan~association
pargeduk~liar
pargeduk~criminal
pargogoi~give strength
pargogoi~strengthen
pargogoi~strengthen
pargolangan~wrist
pargoluan~life
pargomgom~protector
pargomgom~government
pargomgom~protector
pargonditan~waist
pargorahon~inner
pargorahon~feeling
pargulmiton~movement
pargulsakon~luck
pargumbangan~gate
pargumis~chart
pargumis~form
pargumis~picture
pargumis~appearance
parguraton~used
parguraton~footsteps
pargurilla~warrior
pargurilla~guerrilla
parguru~student
parguruan~college
parguruan~a place to learn
parhal~guard
parhalaan~calendar
parhalaan~calendar
parhalaan~calendar
parhalaan~astrology
parhalado~church council
parhalado~waiter
parhalado~servant
parhalado~elder
parhalado~pastor
parhalado~devotion
parhansitan~difficulty
parhansitan~suffering
parhapistaron~scholar
parhapistaron~scientist
parhapistaron~bachelor
parhaseang~take advantage
parhaseang~use it
parhaseanghon~take advantage
parhaseanghon~use it
parhasomal~get used to it
parhata~spokesman
parhata~speaker
parhata~event leader
parhata~language
parhata~protocol
parhata~tip of the tongue
parhataon~talks
parhataon~language
parhataon~conversation
parhataon~words
parhatindang~establish
parhatindangkon~establish
parhatop~faster
parhatutas~servant
parhatutas~servant
parhatutu~admit it
parhatutu~believe it
parhatutu~ponder
parhatutu~believe it
parhauma~rice field workers
parhauma~farm owner
parhauma~rice field owner
parhauma~land owner
parhauma~farmer
parhepeng~debtor
parhitean~road
parhitean~intermediary
parhitehitean~intermediary
parhobas~carpentry expert
parhobas~waiter
parhobas~servant
parhobas~officer
parhobas~craftsman
parhobason~preparation
parhohas~sound equipment
parhohas~equipment
parholangan~distance
parholangan~barrier
parholangan~separator
parhorasan~safety
parhorason~prosperity
parhorason~health
parhorason~pleasure
parhundul~resident
parhundul~sitting position
parhutaan~complex
parhutaan~rural
parhutaan~rustic
parhutaan~settlement
parhutaan~village
pariama~harvest
pariburhon~enliven
paributhu~noisy
paridion~bathing
paridion~bathroom
parik~fortress
parik~sewage
parila~shy
parinaloan~resisted
paringotan~warning
pariparipar~face to face
parir~wretched
parir~painful
parir~very sad
parir~sad
parir~miserable
parira~petai
paris~share
paris~enough
parisahon~philosophy
parisahon~consider
parisahon~deliberate
parishon~distribute
parishon~sufficient
parjabuan~housing area
parjaga~guard
parjahat~rotten heart
parjahat~perpetrator
parjahat~traitor
parjahat~criminal
parjahat?~criminal
parjahatt~criminal
parjalang~nomad
parjalangan~foreign land
parjalangan~overseas
parjalangan~overseas place
parjanjian~agreement
parjehe~traitor
parjolo~beginning
parjolo~first
parjolo~first
parjolo~first
parjolo~front
parjolo~frontman
parjolo~prime
parjolo~First
parjolo~the first one
parjolojolo~early
parjolona~initially
parjolona~his first
parjuangan~struggle
parjugajagion~skill
parjugajagion~cleverness
parkakas~equipment
parkarejo~laborer
parkarejo~employee
parkarejo~employee
parkarejo~worker
parkarejo~wages
parkarejoan~work
parkarejoan~work
parkarejoanna~his job
parkaro~court matters
parkaro~case
parkaro~process
parkaro~dispute
parkatoan~shop
parkatoan~place to chat
parkongsian~fellowship
parlabaan~To use
parlabaan~profit
parlabaan~income
parlabaan~luck
parlakku~perpetrator
parlakkuon~treatment
parlange~swimmer
parlapihan~diseased
parlapihan~receptacle
parlapo~trader
parlapo~peddler
parlapo~shopkeeper
parlapo~shop keeper
parlehetan~repair
parlindungan~protection
parlinggoman~shelter
parlinggoman~protection
parlinggoman~shade
parlinggoman~gathering place
parlogu~singer
parlogu~singer
parlolo~meeting
parlomos~Coward
parlomos~anxious
parlomos~dreamer
parluhutan~discussion
parluhutan~association
parluhutan~gathering
parluhutan~general meeting
parluhutan~a gathering place
parlumbanan~village
parmabuk~drunkard
parmabuk~drinker
parmahan~shepherd
parmahan~shepherd
parmahan~breeder
parmahemahe~style
parmaila~shy
parmainan~prostitute
parmainan~game
parmangan~eater
parmangan~meal allowance
parmangan~wages
parmanomanoan~giving
parmaraan~danger
parmaraan~dangerous situation
parmaraan~disaster
parmaraan~danger
parmaraan~dangerous place
parmasak~spice
parmasak~types of spices
parmata~glasses
parmata~fortune-teller
parmata~gemstone
parmeaman~game
parmeaman~playground
parmianan~village
parmianan~settlement
parmingguan~church
parmingguan~worship place
parmingguon~church service
parmingguon~service
parminum~drunkard
parmisi~said goodbye
parmisi~Excuse me
parmitmit~fraudster
parmitu~drinker
parmitu~palm wine drinker
parmonang~winner
parmonang~always win
parmossak~Warrior
parmudu~mentor
parmuruk~warm-blooded
parmuruk~fierce
parmuruk~angry person
parmusu~soldier
parmusu~soldier
parmusuon~war
parmusuon~war
parnanam~tooth
parnanam~biter
parnehenehe~sycophant
parnesa~forgiveness
parngoluan~life
parngoluanhu~my life
parngoluon~life
parngoluon~livelihood
parngoluonhu~my life
parngoluonna~his life
parngoluonna~his life
parniaean~suffering
parniaean~suffering pain
parniaean~feeling
parniaean~feeling sick
parniahapan~suffering
parniahapan~feeling
parniahapon~taste
parniahapon~feeling
parniahapon~fairy of life
parnianggoan~nose
parnianggoan~sense of smell
parnianggoan~olfactory
parnidaan~vision
parniidaan~eye
parnijabu~wife
parnijabu~wife
parnijabuhu~my wife
parnijabuku~my wife
parningotan~teach
parningotan~memory
parningotan~memory
parningotan~memories
parningotan~warning
parniulaon~work
parniulaon~work
parniulaonna~his job
paroaroahon~getting worse
paroaroahon~slanderous
paroaroahon~bad-mouthing
parohon~bring
parohon~presenting
parolopolopon~celebration
parompuan~Woman
parompuan~woman
parompuanna~his woman
parongking~tighten it
parongking~attach it
parongking~confirmed
parorot~nanny
parorot~children's guardian
parorot~nurse
parorot~take care
parpadanan~agreement
parpadanan~agreement
parpadanan~fellowship
parpar~many descendants
parpar~noisy
parpeopan~place
parpeopan~barrel
parpestaan~celebration
parpestaan~banquet
parpestaan~party place
parpintoron~truth
parpintoron~sincerity
parporang~warrior
parporangan~commotion
parporangan~battle
parporangon~war
parpudi~various livestock
parpudi~pets
parpudi~finish
parpudi~pet
parpudi~final
parpulikon~farewell
parpunguan~togetherness
parpunguan~commune
parpunguan~community
parpunguan~institution
parpunguan~gathering
parpunguan~meeting
parradeon~supply
parrangguan~agreement
parrenggerengge~agent
parrenggerengge~trader
parrentaon~equality
parriaan~meeting
parroha~virtuous
parroha~virtuous
parroha~have a heart
parrohahon~keep
parrohahon~take note
parrohaon~inner voice
parrohaon~heart's desire
parrohaon~mentally
parrohaon~Spirit
parrohaon~tolerance
parrona~his arrival
parrona~his presence
parrundingon~agreement
parrundingon~consensus
parrundingon~discussion
parsadaan~combined
parsadaan~community
parsadaan~partnership
parsadaan~unity
parsadaan~fellowship
parsahat~arrived
parsahatkon~convey
parsahitan~sick condition
parsahitan~disease
parsalisian~difference
parsalisian~dispute
parsalisian~quarrel
parsamean~hostel
parsamean~nursery
parsangapi~respect
parsangketoan~dispute
parsangketoan~quarrel
parsaoran~harmony
parsaoran~mingling
parsaoran~association
parsaripeon~marriage
parsaripeon~household
parsaro~guard
parsaro~patrol
parsaroan~stop
parsaroan~campsite
parsaroan~Inn
parsatokinan~only a while
parsatokinan~just a moment
parsatokinan~temporary
parsatokinan~not durable
parsatongkin~temporary
parsatongkinan~only a while
parsatongkinan~just a moment
parsatongkinan~temporary
parsatongkinan~not durable
parsaulian~blessing
parsaulian~wisdom
parsaulian~luck
parsaulian~right step
parsaulian~sustenance
parsaulianna~the silver lining
parsaulianna~his fortune
parsaulionna~the silver lining
parsaulionna~his fortune
parserahan~scattered
parserahan~scattered things
parserahan~overseas
parserahan~dispersion
parserakan~overseas
parserean~riches
parsiajar~student
parsiajaran~subject
parsiajaran~lesson
parsiajaran~education
parsiajari~learn
parsidohot~take part
parsidohot~participate
parsidohot~follower
parsidohot~participant
parsidohot~participate
parsidongan~accompany
parsidonganon~friendship
parsikkola~protege
parsikkola~educated
parsikkola~intellect
parsikkola~student
parsikkola~student
parsikkola~educated
parsikkolahon~schooled
parsikot~punjar
parsikot~down payment
parsimongkel~agent
parsinabul~spokesman
parsinabul~avenger
parsinabul~advisor
parsinabul~debater
parsinabul~lawyer
parsinabul~defense attorney
parsinabul~debater
parsingir~debtor
parsingir~creditor
parsingir~receivable
parsingir~routing
parsinonduk~wife
parsinonduk~wife
parsinta~expect
parsinta~ask
parsirangan~divorce
parsirangan~farewell
parsirangguton~struggle
parsiriahon~game
parsiriahon~joke
parsisuluan~fireplace
parsitta~aspire
parsitta~yearn for
parsitta~expect
parsitta~want
parsitta~ask
parsoada~argued
parsoada~refuted
parsoada~deny
parsoalan~problem
parsohotan~marriage
parsombaoan~offering
parsonduk~wife
parsonduk~housewife
parsonduk~wife
parsonduk~wife
parsonduk~hostess
parsondukhu~my wife
parsorang~birth
parsorang~at birth
parsoranghon~give birth to
parsorian~trouble
parsorian~disaster
parsorion~circumstances
parsorion~fate
parsorion~suffering
parsorion~Unlucky
parsorion~destiny
parsorionmu~your situation
parsorionmu~your fate
parsuma~it's useless
parsusaon~trouble
partahanhon~keep it up
partahut~Coward
partalian~connection
partalianna~relationship
partalpahan~end
partalpahan~border
partalpakan~border
partangiang~prayer
partangiangan~worship
partangiangan~worship
partangiangan~service
partangiangan~prayer group
partangiangan~prayer meeting
partao~fisherman
partao~fish catcher
partaonan~season
partapianan~bathing
partapianan~bathroom
partenggen~drunkard
partenggen~drinker
parti~accurate
parti~carefully
parti~neat
parti~aligned
partida~argued
partida~back off
partida~arguer
partida~refuted
partida~deny
partigatiga~trader
partigatiga~businessman
partigatiga~seller
partigatiga~merchant
partimbo~maximum
partimbo~the tallest
partimbo~top brass
partinaonan~suffering
partinaonmu~your suffering
partinggal~files
partinggal~document
partinggal~leave
partogi~leader
partogi~protector
partogi~guide
partompuran~battle
partonding~solution
partonding~Now
partondion~gift
partondion~lucky luck
partondion~spiritual
partondion~soul
partondionhu~my spirit
partondionmu~your spirit
partondionna~his spirit
partonggol~banner
partongkaron~quarrel
partongtangan~debate
partongtangan~battle
partongtangan~contradiction
partontangan~debate
partontangan~contradiction
partuat~lower
partudosan~comparison
partuhoan~border
partukkang~carpentry expert
partukkang~mechanic
partukkang~craftsman
partulak~agent
partulak~middleman
partumpolon~engagement
partumpuan~gathering
partumpuan~meeting
partumpuan~stack
partungkoan~hall
partungkoan~hall
partungkoan~meeting hall
partungkoan~hall
partungkoan~place for discussion
partungkoan~place for deliberation
partungkoan~meeting place
partuptupon~conspiracy
partuptupon~determination
partuturan~line of descent
partuturan~kinship relations
partuturan~kinship
partuturan~kinship
partuturan~relationship
partuturan~family tree
paruak~take it out
parubaon~change
parugasan~owner
paruhaon~connection
paruhaon~kin relations
parujung~the end
parujung~closing
parujung~final
parulan~behavior
parulan~character
parulan~deed
parulan~behavior
parulan~action
parulan~behavior
parulian~grace
parulian~blessing
parulian~luck
parulian~good fortune
parulokulok~cunning
paruloson~clothes
parumaen~son-in-law
parumaen~daughter-in-law
parumaen~determined woman
parumaenmi~your son-in-law
parumaenmu~your son-in-law
parumauma~farmer
parumbukhon~adapt
parung~boil
parung~wound
parungkil~warrior
parungkil~sufferer
parungkilan~sadness
parungkilan~inner difficulties
parungkilan~dispute
parungkilon~storm of life
parungkilon~heavy load
parungkilon~difficulty
parungkilon~disaster
parungkilon~temptation
parungkilon~suffering
parungkilon~struggle
parungkilon?~difficulty
parungkilona~difficulty
parungkion~suffering
paruntungon~profit
paruntungon~luck
paruntungon~sustenance
parusadean~backrest
parusak~hurt
parusak~troublesome
parutang~debtor
parutang~creditor
parutusan~agent
pas~suitable
pas~Okay
pas~in accordance
pas~appropriate
pasabar~satisfy
pasabar~be patient
pasabashon~satisfying
pasada~solid
pasada~put it together
pasadama~put it together
pasae~finish
pasaehon~pay
pasaehon~clean the land
pasaehon~finish off
pasaehon~finish
pasaehon~complete
pasagat~satisfy
pasagathon~satisfying
pasahat~traveler
pasahat~wanderer
pasahat~Explorer
pasahat~adventurer
pasahat~hand over
pasahat~hand it over
pasahat~traveler
pasahathon~raise
pasahathon~convey
pasahathon~deliver
pasahatoku~I convey
pasahaton~be delivered
pasahatonhu~I convey
pasaingot~remember
pasak~leech
pasak~bloodsucker
pasak~o'clock
pasaki~beat
pasampurhon~wed
pasang~pray for
pasang~hard
pasang~critical
pasang~install
pasangan~partner
pasanganhu~my partner
pasangap~exalt
pasangap~appreciate it
pasangap~respect
pasangaphon~glorify
pasangaphon~empower
pasangaphon~glorify
pasangaphon~value
pasangaphon~honor
pasapihon~make similar
pasapihon~adapt
pasar~highway
pasar~tax
pasar~market
pasar~week
pasaribu~Pasaribu
pasarisari~think about
pasaut~make it
pasauthon~carry out
pasauthon~carry on something
pasauthon~validate
pasauthon~wed
pasauthon~get married
pasauthon~make
pasauthon~procurement
pasegahon~solve
pasegahon~ruin
pasi~used
pasi~remainder
pasiaksiakhon~hurt
pasiaksiakhon~excruciating
pasiat~make room
pasiat~grant it
pasiat~understand
pasiathon~allow
pasiathon~make a sign in
pasiathon~allow
pasiding~kick
pasiding~avoid
pasiding~avoid it
pasiding~tiny
pasiding~pulled over
pasiding~dodge
pasiding~dodge
pasiding~Separate
pasiding~put it away
pasiding~set it aside
pasidinghon~marginalize
pasidinghon~separate
pasidinghon~starting
pasidinghon~eject
pasidinghon~avoid problems
pasidinghon~avoid
pasidinghon~avoid
pasidinghon~isolate
pasidinghon~set aside
pasidung~finish
pasidung~finish
pasidung~destroyed
pasidunghon~end
pasidunghon~finish
pasidunghon~prepare
pasidunghon~finished
pasidunghon~complete
pasigop~hurry up
pasigop~faster
pasigop~hurry up
pasihar~happy
pasihar~shine
pasikkola~go to school
pasikkolan~go to school
pasilpe~pass each other
pasingkophon~finish
pasingot~remind
pasingothon~advise
pasingothon~rebuked
pasingothon~remind
pasingoton~remind
pasintonghon~correct
pasip~shut up
pasipasi~leftover
pasipasi~remainder
pasipma~be quiet
pasir~beach
pasir~sand
pasir~lakeside
pasir~edge
pasisi~avoid it
pasisi~dodge
pasisi~sideways
pasisir~coast
paso~stop it
paso~stop it
paso~stop
pasobok~match
pasohon~silence
pasohon~stop
pasohon~relieve
pasohothon~stop
pasohothon~wed
pasohothon~get married
pasoksokhon~match
pasolhot~bring it closer
pasolhot~close it
pasoma~stop it
pasoma~stop
pasomal~get used to it
pasomalsomal~get used to it
pasomalsomal~do it over and over again
pasomalsomal~get used to
pasomalsomal~get used to
pasombu~let
pasombu~let
pasombu~vent
pasombu~let
pasombu~satisfying
pasombuhon~freeing
pasombuhon~let
pasombuhon~satisfying
pasombuhon~silence
pasombuhon~abandon
pasombuhon~allow
pasombuhonmu~let you
pasonang~have fun
pasonang~have fun
pasonanghon~made happy
pasonanghon~made happy
pasonanghon~made calm
pasonanghon~a relief
pasonanghon~happy
pasonanghon~calm
pasonanghon~reconcile
pasonanghon~secure
pasonanghon~nice
pasonanghon~encouraging
pasonanghon~pleasant
pasonanghon~leave
pasonangkan~pleasant
pasonangkon~pleasant
pasondot~finish
pasondothon~stop
pasondothon~finish
pasorin~change
paspas~slap
paspas~blow
paspas~stumbled on
paspas~blown away
paspas~crashed on
passorion~association
pastap~slap
pastap~lotak
pastap~slap
pastap~smack
pastapi~slap
pastapon~slap
pastima~west
pastina~west
pasuda~slaughter
pasuda~exterminate
pasuda~eradicate
pasuda~spend it
pasuda~permeable
pasuda~destroyed
pasudah~spend it
pasudahi~spend it
pasuhar~turn it over
pasuharhon~reverse
pasuharhon~frustrating
pasumanhon~match
pasumanhon~imitate
pasumanhon~resemble
pasumanhon~resemble
pasundar~return
pasundar~bring it back
pasupasu~grace
pasupasu~blessing
pasupasu~bless
pasupasu~gift
pasupasu~ceremonial
pasupasu~grace
pasupasu~sustenance
pat~foot
patabohon~nice
patabohon~delicious
pataishon~distance
patajom~old
patajom~sharpen it
patalak~open wide
patalak~open it
patalpak~make it clear
pataluhon~defeat
patama~respect
patama~make it fast
patamahon~worthy
patamahon~speed up
patamba~add
patandahon~introduce
patandahon~introduce
patandahon~introduce
patandahon~explain
patandahon~introduce
patandaphon~ensure
patandaphon~confirm
patandaphon~state
patandashon~convey
patandihon~differentiate
patangging~tighten
patangging~stretch it
patanggir~tighten
patangkas~make sure
patangkas~make it clear
patangkashon~explained exactly
patangkashon~ensure
patangkashon~clarify
pataporhon~break it
patar~fact
patar~plain
patar~clear
patar~easy to see
patar~real
patar~all clear
patar~bright
patar~open
patar~transparent
patardas~said
patardashon~disclose
patariashon~announce
patarida~show
pataridahon~stick out
pataridahon~tell
pataridahon~show
pataridahon~appeared
pataridahon~displays
pataridahon~sticking out
pataridahon~show
pataridahon~show off
pataru~between
pataru~deliver
patarue~between
pataruhon~deliver
patasakhon~tidy up
patauhon~match
patauhon~align
pate~valid
pate~end
pate~Certain
pate~legitimate
pate~finished
pate~Ready
pate~do not change
pateda~explain
pateda~show off
pateda~show
patedahon~show off
patedahon~explain
patedahon~show
patehon~make sure
patema~get ready
patena~what we can be certain of is
patengka~different
patepatean~confidential
patestes~repair
patestes~tidy up
pathu~my feet
patialaon~faint
patiar~clear
patibu~faster
patibuhon~speed up
patibuhon~faster
patidahon~explained
patidahon~show
patihala~headache
patihala~migrant
patihala~dizziness
patihala~headache
patik~rule
patik~law
patik~the law
patik~regulation
patik~order
patik~Torah
patik~commandment
patik~Constitution
patimbo~high
patimbo~elevate
patimbohu~height
patimbul~elevate
patimbulhon~exalt
patimbulhon~glorify
patimbulhon~bring up
patimbulhon~glorify
patimbulhon~raise a degree
patimbulhon~elevate
patimbulhon~uphold
patinda~change
patinda~disguised
patindang~stand up
patingkoshon~straighten out
patingkoshon~justify
patingkoshon~correct
patingkoshon~repair
patipakhon~prepare
patiur~brighten up
patiur~light
patmu~your feet
patna~his feet
patodo~show
patoguhon~strengthen
patoguhon~strengthen ties
patoguhon~confirmed
patoguhon~strengthen
patohohon~match
patohohon~matchmaking
patohohon~matchmaker
patok~limit
patok~stake
patok~sign
patolhashon~convey
patoluhon~third
patomuhon~gather
patonangkon~calm
patongon~point
patongonhon~float
patongonhon~direct
patophon~unite
patophon~gather
patorang~West Java
patorang~break it down
patorang~explain
patorang~detail
patorangan~information
patoranghon~detailing
patoranghon~enlightening
patoranghon~explained
patoranghon~reveal
patoranghon~explain
patoranghon~explain
patorangkan~explained
patorangkhon~explained
patorangkkon~explained
patorangkon~explained
patorangon~explained
patorop~copy
patorop~enliven
patoruhu~humility
patotahon~put things in order
patu~familiar
patu~defeated
patu~obedient
patu~obey
patu~worship
patu~defeated
patu~conquer
patu~submit
patu~bow
patuathon~lower
patubi~fight
patubi~fighting
patudos~compare
patudos~match
patudoshon~compared with
patudoshon~compare
patudoshon~equalize
patudu~put it forward
patudu~show
patudu~show
patuduhon~stick out
patuduhon~show
patuduhon~reflect
patuduhon~sticking out
patuduhon~show
patuduma~show me
patuhon~bow
patuhorhon~buy it
patula~free
patula~without supervision
patullom~exactly
patuluhom~third
patulus~round up
patulus~relax
patulushon~launch
patulushon~grant
patulushon~grant the request
patulushon~stage
patulushon~agree
patulushon~make
patulushon~finish
patulushon~give up
patulut~take note
patumpol~explain
patumpol~face it
patumpolhon~confront
patumpolhon~explain
patunal~different
patunal~it is not in accordance with
patundal~back
patundal~hostile
patundal~controversy
patundukhon~conquer
patundukhon~defeat
patundukhon~control
patundukhon~subdue
patunemnem~be patient
patung~statue
patunggomhon~match
patunggomhon~adapt
patununu~grumbled
patununu~whisper
patupa~Serve
patupa~provide
patupa~held
patupa?~provide
patupahon~carry out
patupahon~do
patupahon~form
patupahon~make
patupahon~make
patupahon~stage
patupahon~serve
patupahon~serve
patupahon~provide
patupahon~organize
patupahon~procurement
patupahonn~provide
patupahonon~provide
patupaon~Serve
patupaon~provide
pature~sour
pature~fix it
pature~create
pature~com
pature~correct
pature~arrange
pature~repair
pature~pugar
pature~raft
pature~error
pature~verification
paturehon~annulled
paturehon~sour
paturehon~build
paturehon~tidy up
paturehon~correct
paturehon~repair
paturehon~restore
paturehon~verify
paturehon~create
paturehon~arrange
paturehon~finish
paturehon~assemble
paturehon~tidy up
patureture~look after
patureturehon~repair
patureturehon~repair
paturtur~arrange
paturunhon~lower
patusabam~be patient
patut~worthy
patut~proper
patut~proper
patut~reasonable
patutal~complicated
patutal~chaotic
patutal~not suitable
patutal~it is not in accordance with
patutdo~is it appropriate?
patutdo~appropriate
patuteture~repair
patutna~worthy
patutna~appropriate
patutna~proper
patutna~naturally
patutur~lined up
patutur~arrange
pauba~variable
pauba~change
paubahon~change
paubahon~change something
paudur~point
paudur~line it up
paugul~quarrel
paujathon~deny something
paujathon~reject
paujung~end
paujung~decide
paujung~finish
paujung~that's it
paujunghon~end
paujunghon~end
paujunghon~finish
paujunghon~finish
paula~pretend
paula~pretend
paula~as if
paulaean~request
paulaean~application
paulak~return
paulak~send it home
pauli~make it
pauli~create
pauli~ornamental
pauli~do it
pauli~repair
pauli~beautify
pauli~raft
pauli~save
paulihon~build
paulihon~make
paulihon~repair
paulihon~beautify
paulihon~beautify
paulihon~stage
paulihon~do
paulihon~decorate
paulihon~keep
paulihon~assemble
pauliulihon~look after
pauliulihon~look after
pauliulihon~caring for children
paumbanghon~lift
paumbanghon~investigate
paundar~below again
paundar~return
paundar~bring it back
paunduk~Is not it
paunduk~persevere
paune~that's right
paune~do
paune~repair
paune~adjust
paunehon~correct
paunehon~repair
paunehon~match
pauneune~repair
pauneunehon~conserve
pauneunehon~pondering
pauneunehon~improve
pauneunehon~give up
paurak~humiliation
pauruuru~scoffed
pauruuru~railed
pauruuru~scoffed
pauruuru~make fun
pauseang~grant
pe~even
pe~Also
pe~even
pe~just
pe~time
peak~lie down
peak~sprawl
peak~fell down
peak~fall down
peak~location
peak~fell down
peak~fell
peak~fell
peakhon~put it down
peakpeak~lie down
peakpeak~lying down
peakpeak~lying down
peakpeak~sleeping around
peam~skilled
peam~used to
peang~broken
pedalanan~journey
pedan~bro
pedan~colleague
pedan~friend
pedan~Friend
pedanhu~my friend
pege~ginger
pegul~hunchback
pegulon~bent
pejet~short
pek~mind you
pek~beautiful
pele~offerings
pele~worship
pelean~collection
pelean~sacrifice
pelean~offering
pelekket~repair
peleng~hunchback
peleng~whining
peleng~spoiled
peleng~crooked
peleng~crooked
pelepelean~offerings
pelepelean~offerings
pellong~blind
pelpel~despicable
pelpel~small
peltong~blind
pendek~short
pendek~low
penge~Bengal
penge~deaf
penge~deaf
penggang~waist
pengindoan~request
pengindoanmu~your request
pengkur~bent
pengkur~clubbing
pengkur~limping
pengpeng~small
pengpeng~slow growing
peol~bent
peol~crank
peol~broken
peol~buckling
peol~backwards
peol~twisted
peol~not straight
peop~keep it in mind
peop~keep
perak~silver
perasaanhu~my feelings
perasaani~his feelings
perasaanna~his feelings
perasaanni~his feelings
perdonganan~friendship
pere~free
perhas~lightning
persadahon~unity
persi~version
persidonganon~friendship
pesepese~baby
pesepese~snore
pesta~desire
pesta~celebration >>>
pesta~banquet
pesta~party
pestam~your party
pestami~your party
pestamu~your party
pestana~the party
peto~Correct
peto~veto
peus~arrogant
peus~proud
peut~fall
peut~sagging
peutpeut~sag
peutpeut~depends
pia~want to
pia~envy
pia~tempted
piak~balanced
piak~in accordance
pial~jewer
piapia~kidneys
piapia~kidney
piar~wink
piara~maintain
piaraan~pet
piari~wink
piaro~foster
piaro~maintain
pidato~speech
pidom~perish
pidom~wretched
pidom~destroyed
pidom~dead
pidom~destroyed
pidom~goes out
pidom~snotty
pidom~disappeared
pidong~bird
pidongmi~your bird
pidongmu~your bird
piga~How many
pigapiga~a number of
pihit~save money
pihit~economical
pihit~miserly
pihit~stingy
pihot~pray for
pihot~hard
pihot~tough
pijabu~At home
pijom~deaf
pijom~deaf
pijor~welding
pijor~solder
pijor~solder
pikkir~be careful
pikkir~think
pikkir~mused
pikkiran~mind
pikkiran~idea
pikkiran~opinion
pikkiran~thought
pikkiranhu~my mind
pikkiranna~his mind
pikkirhon~think
pikkirhon~think
pikkiri~analysis
pikkiri~think about it
pikkiri~think about it
pikul~carry it
pilat~intimate parts
pilat~sex
pilat~dick
pilat~testicles
pilat~penis
pilat~penis
pilathu~my dick
pilathu~my penis
pilatmi~your dick
pilatmi~your penis
pilatmu~your dick
pilatmu~your penis
pilatna~his dick
pilatna~his penis
pilhot~clotted
pilhot~chopped
pilhot~pray for
pilhot~hard
pilhot~clay
pilhot~tough
pilit~switch
pilit~different
pilit~turned around
pilit~deviated
pilit~deviated
pilit~Wrong
pilit~miss it
pilitpilit~awry
pilitpilit~always deviated
pillit~sort it out
pillit~choose
pillit~selection
pillit~sort
pillitan~choice
pillot~narrow
pillot~desperate
pilngas~sunlight
pilngas~scorching
pilsak~radiating out
pilsak~squirt
piltik~getik
piltik~snap
piltik~flick
piltik~caught
pinaboa~notified
pinabotohon~notified
pinahamat~considered
pinahamat~if
pinahamat~as if there were
pinahan~animal
pinahan~pet
pinahan~livestock
pinahan~cattle
pinahan~domestic livestock
pinahanobu~buffalo
pinahatop~accelerated
pinahatop~I speed up
pinajae~abandoned
pinalolo~made
pinalolo~agreed
pinandok~said
pinangido~I ask
pinantikhon~plugged in
pinapurpur~opened
pinarade~prepared
pinarade~presented by
pinarade~provided
pinarlaman~experienced
pinarsinta~ambition
pinarsinta~yearn for
pinarsinta~desire
pinarsintahu~my ideals
pinarsintahu~my wish
pinarsintana~his ideals
pinarsintana~his wish
pinarsinya~his wish
pinarsori~forgiven
pinasa~jackfruit
pinasangap~respected
pinasingot~reminded
pinasonang~pleasant
pinatalu~defeated
pinatibu~speed up
pinatibu~accelerated
pinatingkos~justified
pinatingkos~corrected
pinatupa~served
pinatupa~provided
pinatureture~false
pinauli~repaired
pinda~lift your feet
pinda~migrate
pinda~run away
pinda~mutation
pinda~move
pindan~even
pindan~complete
ping~pray for
ping~hard
pinggan~plate
pinggan~porcelain
pinggir~edge
pinggol~earlobe
pinggol~ear
pinggol~hooked eye
pinggol~hearing
pinggol~ear
pinggolhu~my ears
pinggolhu~my ears
pinggolmu~your ears
pinggolmu~your ears
pingkal~facing up
pingkal~tense
pingket~trap
pingkiri~think about it
pingping~pray for
pingping~hard
pinillit~choice
pinindan~even
pinindan~complete
pining~areca nut
pining~betel nut
pining~areca palm tree
pinjil~foreign
pinjil~different
pinjil~alone
pinomat~at least
pinompar~descendants
pinompar~hereditary
pinompar~derivative
pinondang~light
pinondang~lightning
pinondang~incandescent
pinonjar~pushed
pinsang~advise
pinsang~commemorate
pinsang~like
pinsang~reprimanded
pinsang~scold
pinsangpinsang~punishment
pinsangpinsang~blow
pinsangpinsang~scold
pinsangpinsang~reprimand
pinsur~taper
pinsur~pointed
pinsur~sharp
pinta~ask for
pintor~fair
pintor~Correct
pintor~right
pintor~Honest
pintor~direct
pintor~straight
pintor~quick
pintor~Keep going
pintor~sincere
pintoron~really
pintorpintor~truly
pintorpintor~truly
pintu~door
pinungka~started
pinungka~built
pinungka~opened
pinungka~treasure
piopio~calling
piopio~a kind of bird
piopio~invitation
pipi~advance
pipi~face
pipot~disabled
pipot~nervous
pipot~error
pipot~stain
pipot~Wrong
pir~broke
pir~chopped
pir~pray for
pir~hard
pir~dry
pir~clay
pir~still
pira~egg
pirang~arid
pirang~dry
pirang~languish
pirapira~testicles
pirapira~penis
pirapira~testicles
pirapira~penis
pirdo~hard
pirdo~hard
piring~plate
piripirion~furious
piripirion~angry
piripirion~angry
pirus~virus
pisang~banana
pisar~squeezed
pisar~broken
pisarhon~break it
pisat~run over
pisat~push
pisat~massage
pisat~press
pisik~odd
pisik~not enough
pisik~confidential
pisikpisik~dregs
pisikpisik~crumb granules
pisikpisik~crumbs
piso~machete
piso~knife
pispis~splash
pistar~expert
pistar~wise
pistar~virtuous
pistar~brained
pistar~competent
pistar~intelligent
pistar~dodgy
pistar~fluent
pistar~proficient
pistar~smart
pistar~clever
pistik~point
pita~very well
pita~complete
pita~pure
pita~perfect
pitara~custom
pitara~method
pitara~habit
pitolot~pencil
pittua~advice
pitu~7
pitu~seven
pitudar~squirrel
pitudar~a kind of squirrel
pitung~blind
pitut~small
pitut~A little
pitut~narrow
piu~gyre
piu~spun
poda~teach
poda~teachings
poda~mandate
poda~proverb
poda~advice
poda~teaching
poda~message
poda~advice
poda~suggestion
poda~please
podahi~my teachings
podahi~my teachings
podahi~my mandate
podahi~my advice
podahi~my teaching
podahi~my message
podahi~my advice
podahi~I suggest
podai~gembleng
podai~advise
podal~handheld
podal~massage
podana~his advice
podo~Still
podoman~mattress
podoman~bed
podoman~bed
podomi~erami
podomi~sleep
pogang~hold
pogi~battered
pogi~folded
pogi~fell down
pogo~cheating
pogo~stand
pogos~lacking
pogos~broke
pogos~hard life
pogos~poor
pogos~poor
pogosna~poor
pogu~bile
pogu~center
pohot~Serious
pohu~part
pohul~handheld
pohul~clenched
pohulon~fist
pojam~dark
pojam~closed
pokkan~market
pokkan~week
pola~even
pola~quite necessary
pola~must
pola~must
pola~need
polin~clean
polin~special
polin~complete
polin~pure
polin~perfect
polin~not mixed
polisi~oppa
polisi~police
pollat~step on
pollat~step on
pollong~hidden
pollong~clogged
pollung~argued
pollung~talk
pollung~debate
pollung~talks
pollung~conversation
pollung~smart talker
poltak~bright
poltak~rise
poltik~tightly
poltik~tied tightly
poltik~strict
poltik~tightly bound
poltik~tied tight
poltik~tied tightly
polut~released
polut~free
polut~separated
pompar~derivative
pomparan~child
pomparan~grandchild
pomparan~bani
pomparan~descendants
pomparan?~family
pomparani~his family
pomparanku~my family
pomparanni~his family
pomparannni~his family
pomparannya~his family
ponggol~paragraph
ponggol~chapter
ponggol~part
ponggol~couplet
ponggol~stump
ponggol~puck
ponggol~broken
ponggol~fraction
ponggol~cut off
ponggol~cut
ponggol~separated
ponggol~stage
ponggolhon~break it
ponggolon~piece
ponggolponggol~puck
ponggolponggol~broken
ponggolponggol~fraction
pongkok~capital
pongkok~principal
pongkot~capital
pongkot~venture capital
pongkot~principal
pongkot~capital money
ponji~cotton
ponji~kapok
ponji~randy
ponjot~crowded
ponjot~crowded
ponjot~narrow
ponjot~congested
pono~unwilling
pono~mourning
pono~sad
ponot~pipe
ponot~channel
ponsa~broken
ponsahon~break it
poparan~calculation
poparan~estimation
popas~hook
popas~fishing rod
por~torrential
por~heavy
pora~easy to crack
pora~crisp
pora~dry
pora~fragile
poran~pray for
poran~hard
poran~firm
porang~rebel
porang~fight
porang~war
porang~combat
porda~handle
porda~stalk
porhas~thunder
porhas~lightning
porhis~ant
porhot~rough
porhot~rough
porhot~grip
porhot~firm
porhot~not slippery
porhot~uneven
poring~taro
poring~Taro
porlak~garden
porlak~field
porlak~park
porlu~need
porlu~important
porlu~need
porman~pious
porman~Honest
porman~pious
porman~polite
porman~holy
porman~piety
pormanma~be honest
porngis~good quality
porngis~strong
porngis~densely packed
porot~rough
porot~involved
porot~related
porot~stuck
porotan~snorted
porsan~bear
porsan~pelvis
porsan~carry it
porsanon~burden
porsea~Porsea City
porsea~believe
porsea~Certain
porseama~believe me
porso~Lie
porso~deny it
porso~deny
porsuk~destitute
porsuk~suffer
porsuk~languish
porsuk~painful
porsuk~very sad
porsuk~miserable
portibi~natural
portibi~earth
portibi~world
portibi~universe
portibion~this earth
portibion~This world
portu~fast
portu~pray for
portu~hard
portu~important
pos~believe
pos~post
pos~willing
pos~firm
pos~calm
pos~still
pos~don't hesitate
pos~Certain
posa~heavy
posa~critical
posa~sucks
posa~seriously ill
posa~difficult
posa~difficult
posi~heavy
posi~pray for
posi~hard
posi~sad
posi~critical
posi~spicy
posi~scorching
posido~severity
posma~believe me
posma~calm down
posma~rest assured
poso~young
poso~early
poso~young
posoposo~baby
posoposona~the baby
posuk~miserable
potang~evening
potang~afternoon
pote~petai
poti~box
poti~chest
potikpotik~crossbar
potikpotik~knob
poting~jug
poting~daily
poting~tube
poting~water tube
poting~bamboo tube
poting~receptacle
potir~terrible
potir~pray for
potir~bitter
potir~hard
potir~terrifying
potir~critical
potlot~pencil
poto~Photo
potong~cut
potong~slaughter
potongan~model
potongan~appearance
potonganna~form
potos~miserly
potos~greedy
potpot~heavy
potpot~full of overgrown
potpot~growing tightly
potpot~lush
potpotan~thorns
puang~bro
puang~buddy
puang~husband
puas~come out
puas~relieved
puas~flowing out
puas~satisfied
puas~translucent
puas~sparked
puas~channeled
puasa~get up
puasa~scattered
puashon~satisfy
puaspais~Here and there
puaspais~Busy
puaspais~uncertain
pudan~youngest
pudi~end
pudi~come back
pudi~behind
pudun~grooming
pudun~tie
pudun~intertwine
pudun~bond center
pudun~node
puhe~fell
puhe~fell
puhung~bent
puhung~hug your knees
puhung~clenched
puhut~diligent
puhut~always
puhut~persistent
puhut~painstaking
puis~go out
puis~channeled
puji~praise
pukul~o'clock
pulas~threat
pulas~curse
pulaspulas~curse
pulguk~lying around
pulguk~stacked
pulguk~pile it up
pulguk~stack
pulha~collapse
pulha~broken-down
pulha~broken
pulha~open
puli~putty
puli~glue
puli~adhesive
puli~cement
pulik~different
pulik~special
pulik~typical
pulik~move aside
pulik~separate
pulik~set aside
pulik~isolated
pulik~not merge
puliling~punch marks
puliling~touch
puliling~collision
pullit~go out
pullit~glared
pulo~island
pulos~intertwine
pulos~jewer
pulos~gyre
pulos~spun
pulos~sound asleep
pulpulan~wild chicken
pulpulan~bird
pulsa~credit
pulsik~appear
pultak~explode
pultak~explode
pultak~explosion
pultak~erupt
pultak~broken
pultakhon~pop it
pultakhon~break it
pulu~tens
pulung~petai flower
pulung~mix
pulung~herb
pulung~collected
pulung~collected
pulut~sap
pulut~pulut
pulut~have the heart
pumpe~doll
pun~leftover
pun~remainder
puna~right
puna~owned by
puna~Have
punahu~my right
punahu~mine
punahu~mine
punam~your rights
punam~yours
punam~yours
punamu~your rights
punamu~yours
punamu~yours
punana~his rights
punana~his
punana~hers
punangku~mine
punasa~his rights
punasa~his
punasa~hers
pundamen~base
pundamen~foundation
pundial~lump
pungga~hone
pungga~grindstone
pungga~rubbing stone
pungka~start
pungka~start
pungkul~marble
pungkul~marbles
pungkul~O'clock
pungkul~marbles
pungkul~o'clock
pungkul~time
pungkulan~blow
pungu~together
pungu~collect
pungu~gather
pungu~complete
pungu~pile
pungu~group
punguan~combined
punguan~set
punguan~congregation
punguan~race
punguan~group
punguan~gathering
punguan~mass
punguan~organization
punguan~sect
punguan~heap
punguhon~collect
punguon~saving
punguon~collect
punia~kind
punia~economical
punia~frugal
punia~economical
punil~swollen
punil~lump
punil~lump
punjung~tiny
punjung~alone
punjung~alone
punjung~quiet
punjung~without friends
punjung~isolated
punok~sprain
punok~wrong vein
punok~congested
punok~sprained
punok~twisted
punsahan~the course of something
punsahan~meaning
punsahan~form
punsu~end
punsu~shoots
punsu~peak
punsu~end
punsuna~the end
puntar~broken
puntarhon~break it
puntas~explode
puntas~explode
puntas~explosion
puntas~erupt
puntas~eruption
puntas~broken
punten~mark
puntung~short
pupur~finished
pupur~blank
pupus~come on
pupus~guide
pupus~build
pupus~nephew
pur~blowing
pur~pray for
pur~blowing hard
pur~hard
puraga~brave
purba~ancient clan
purba~ancient
purba~east
purguk~gather
purguk~pile it up
purguk~stack
purnas~fresh
purpur~arid
purpur~shake
purpur~shake
purpur~Separate
purpur~cool
purun~turn on
pusa~kill
pusa~beat it
pusa~torture
pusat~core
pusat~Whirlpool
pusatna~the main thing is
pusok~heavy breathing
pusok~core
pusok~short of breath
pusok~navel
pusok~center
pusok~congested
pusok~centre point
pusokpusokon~tired
pusokpusokon~fatigue
pusor~turn
pusor~navel
pusor~Whirlpool
pustaha~book
pustaha~book
pustaha~References
pustaha~letter
pusu~hate
pusu~fed up
pusuk~shoots
pusuk~peak
pusuk~end
pusupusu~heart
pusupusu~heart
pusupusu~feeling
pusupusuhi~my heart
pusupusuhi~my heart
pusupusuhi~my feelings
pusupusuhon~my heart
pusupusuhon~my heart
pusupusuhon~my feelings
pusupusuhu~my heart
pusupusuhu~my heart
pusupusuhu~my feelings
pusupusum~your heart
pusupusum~your heart
pusupusum~your feelings
pusupusumi~your heart
pusupusumi~your heart
pusupusumi~your feelings
pusupusuna~his heart
pusupusuna~his heart
pusupusuna~his feelings
putas~exterminate
putas~poison
puti~clean
puti~pure
puti~holy
puti~spotless
putik~pick
putik~pick up
putikhonhi~I quoted
putikhononhu~I quoted
putor~propeller
putor~turn
putor~curve
putor~twists
putor~circumference
putor~turn
putor~buckling
putput~unplug it
putput~finished
putput~is lost
putput~blank
putput~broken
putus~destitute
putus~separated
putus~finished
putus~miserable
ra~perhaps
ra~willing
ra~Want to
ra~Possible
rabi~machete
rabi~Slash
rabirabi~annoyed
rabut~rough
rabuton~hairy
rabuton~rough
rade~done
rade~willing
rade~dish
rade~willing
rade~serve
rade~ready
rade~Ready
rade~ready
rade~get ready
radema~get ready
radop~face
radot~watch
radot~carefully
radot~keep
radot~maintain
radot~take note
radot~save
radothon~keep
radoti~watch
radoti~keep
radoti~manage
radoti~mastered
radoti~maintain
radoti~take note
radoti~take care
radoti~careful about
radoti~save
ragam~different
ragam~various
ragam~type
ragam~category
ragam~type
ragam~variety
ragam~all round
ragam~variation
ragat~war
ragat~disagree
ragat~crowded
ragat~is busy
rage~scattered
rage~destroyed
rage~destroyed
rage~hoarse
rage~spilled
ragehon~spill
ragi~for
ragi~pattern
ragi~yeast
ragian~prop
ragu~chaotic
rahar~scorched
rahar~dry
rahar~withered
rahat~malignant
rahat~miserly
rahis~steep
rahis~canyon
rahis~road side
rahis~Riverside
rahis~steep
rahut~tie
rahut~pigtail
rahut~bound
rahutan~bond
rahutrahut~rope
rain~support
rain~connect
rainan~support
rainan~connection
raion~shiver
raion~neurological disease
rais~hook
rais~hanging
rais~abandoned
rais~steep
rais~stuck
raisan~rattan
rait~hook
raja~head
raja~leader
raja~supervisor
raja~ruler
raja~king
raja~Sir
rajai~come on
rajai~mastered
rajai~protect
rajana~the king
rajom~pointed
rajom~sharp
rajuman~reflection
rajuman~sustenance
rajumi~admit it
rajumi~consider
rajumi~consider
rajumi~ponder
rajumi~think about it
raksa~knowledge
ramba~thicket
ramba~grass
ramba~bush
ramban~cloth
rambang~net
rambas~tripe
rambas~pioneer
rambas~Slash
rambon~blind
rambon~blurry
rambon~short-sighted
rambon~dimly lit
rambon~faint
rambon~not clear
rambong~stupid
rambong~rubber tree
rambong~hairy
rambong~dishonest
rambong~impure
rambu~tassels
rambu~guide
rambu~tassel
rambutan~rambutan
rame~large population
rame~rousing
rame~crowded
rame~lively
ramos~lots of fruit
ramos~many
ramos~bear heavy fruit
ramos~heavy
ramos~ripe
ramos~lush
ramot~watch out
ramot~carefully
ramot~Be careful
ramot~Be careful
ramot~victorious
ramot~maintain
ramot~Happy
ramot~write
ramotan~protection
ramoti~watch
ramoti~come on
ramoti~keep
ramoti~protect
ramotima~protect it
rampa~nosy
rampak~with
rampak~together
rampak~simultaneously
rampak~collaborate
rampak~compact
rampak~The same
rampak~sanding
rampak~at a time
rampak~simultaneously
ramping~free
ramping~separated
ramping~date
rampinghon~let go
rampinghon~decide
rampinghon~take it off
rampusan~booty
ramuan~various herbs
ramuan~drugs
ramuan~concoction
ramuan~potion
ramuan~recipe
ramun~abstinence
ramun~taboo
ramun~forbidden
ramun~inappropriate
ramun~not polite
ranap~look
ranap~mused
ranap~responsive
ranap~stare
ranapi~look at it
ranapi~ponder
ranapi~respond
ranapi~but
ranget~rather
ranget~Good
ranget~somewhat
ranget~currently
ranggang~tenuous
ranggar~break
rangging~stretched out
rangging~fastened
rangging~involved
rangging~depends
ranggiongon~thin
ranggiting~bee
ranggiting~wasp
rangkak~distance
rangkak~intermittently
rangkak~seldom
rangkak~loose
rangkak~tenuous
rangkit~intertwine
rangrangan~initiative
rangsa~story
rangsa~information
rangsa~exhibition
rangsa~lighting
rangsa~explanation
rangsa~history
rano~Confused
rano~wrong
rano~negligent
ransan~torn
ransan~ripped
ransar~fast
ransar~fluent
ransar~quick
ransim~slashing
ransim~sharp
rante~Gari
rante~beard
rante~beard
rante~horse bridle
rante~chain
rantingna~the branch
rantingna~the twig
rantiti~fruit
rantiti~puck
rantiti~cut
ranto~region
rantos~pointed
rantos~sharp
ranum~ripe
ranum~Cook
rap~together
rap~together
rap~with
rap~gather
rap~complete
rap~The same
rap~aligned
rapak~bridge
rapan~rubbish
rapanrapan~rubbish
rapar~hungry
raphon~together
raphon~with
raphon~accompanied
rapir~Alone
rapma~same thing
rapot~discuss
rapot~glue
rapot~discussion
rapot~adhesive
rapot~meeting
rapot~report card
rapot~negotiate
rapot~hearing
raprap~simultaneously
raprap~together
raprap~wound
raprap~You're welcome
rapurapu~rubbish
rara~blushing face
rara~red
rara~orange red
rara~scarlet
rarak~scattered
rarak~spread out
rarak~developed
rarak~spread
rarak~hoarse
rarang~prohibit
rarang~forbid
rarang~scold
rarangan~prohibition
rarat~Lots
rarat~rambling
rarat~widespread
rarat~rambling
rarat~widespread
rarat~spread
rarat~mushrooming
rarat~spread
rarat~creeping
rarat~spread
rari~excessive
rari~much more
rari~chaotic
rari~blank
rari~tangled
rari~inconsequential
rari~irregular
rari~does not originate
rari~not collected
rarihon~mess it up
rasa~scabies
rasa~flavor
rase~exterminate
rase~perish
rase~destroyed
rase~destroyed
rasian~method
rasian~characteristic
rasip~exterminate
rasip~eradicate
rasip~perish
rasip~extinct
rasira~until
rasirasa~until
raso~pandan
raso~I feel like
rasun~Can
rasun~venom
rasun~poison
rasun~infected
rata~flat
rata~green
rata~fresh
raterate~disturbed
raterate~feeling angry
raterate~pale
rattak~arrange
raung~assemble
raung~bunch
raung~stalk
raus~origin
raus~reckless
raus~haphazard
raus~careless
raus~not deep
raus~not neat
raus~careless
raus~irregular
raut~knife
raut~small knife
raya~big
raya~kingdom
rea~big
rea~kingdom
reak~watching people
reak~care
reap~kite
reap~people
reap~fly
rebat~wobbly
rebat~footsteps
rebat~staggered
redang~silent
rehe~reproach
rehe~in front of
rehe~scoffed
rehe~banter
rejet~flat
rekrek~pain
rekrek~wardrobe
rekrek~rack
rekrek~torture
rekrek~tormented
remeng~annoying
remeng~talkative
remeng~scold
remeng~fussy
remengremeng~grumbled
remet~fine
rempe~tired
rempe~tired
rendep~shallow
rendep~shallow
rendep~gasped
renge~critical
renges~asleep
renges~restful
renges~sound asleep
renges~sound asleep
renta~disciplined
renta~together
renta~compact
renta~complete
renta~The same
renta~solid
renta~regular
renteng~egg
rentuk~small items
rentuk~chaotic
rentuk~irregular
rentuki~mess it up
reong~throw
reong~Sambit
reong~beat it
repak~limping
repak~lame
repat~limping
repat~lame
repot~Busy
rerak~hoarse
rere~mat
reso~set
reso~done
reso~check
reso~finished
reso~Ready
reso~fixed
ressok~noisy
ressok~noisy
ressok~loud sound
ressok~frenetic
ressok~hustle and bustle
ressok~noisy
ressok~don't get along
retes~fragile
retuk~hard
retuk~difficult
reung~dry
reung~thin
rezekini~his fortune
ri~reeds
ri~weeds
ria~together
ria~come together
ria~happy
ria~many present
ria~rousing
ria~discussion
ria~fun
ria~like
riadei~happy
riadei~that's happy
riak~joking
riak~game
riak~joke
riar~fierce
riar~wild
riar~wild
rias~ornamental
rias~matchstick tree
rias~make-up
ribak~shred
ribak~swatch
ribak~torn
ribak~rabak
ribak~ripped
ribak~torn
riban~big
riban~wide
ribar~wide
ribur~crowded
ribur~encouraging
ribur~rousing
ribur~crowded
ribur~lively
ribur~leave
riburan~crowded
ridom~stupid
riga~split
rigat~torn
rigat~torn
riha~awry
riha~gap
rihariha~gap
rihariha~error
rihariha~cracked
rihit~sand
rim~together
rim~one heart
rim~all at once
rim~agreed
rim~simultaneously
rimang~mused
rimang~take a look
rimangi~analysis
rimangi~ponder
rimangi~take a look
rimas~naughty
rimas~malignant
rimas~furious
rimas~angry
rimasmu~your angry
rimasna~he was angry
rimba~work on
rimba~heavy
rimbor~blurry
rimbor~vaguely visible
rimbor~not bright
rimpa~mutual cooperation
rimpa~compact
rimpa~simultaneously
rimpa~simultaneously
rimpang~part
rimpang~group
rimpang~tight
rimpas~very
rimpas~perfect
rimpas~complete
rimpu~considered
rimpu~thought
rimpu~guess
rimpu~think
rimpu~thought
rimpur~straight
rimpur~long
rimpur~lush
rimrim~You're welcome
rimrim~all at once
rimrim~simultaneously
rinda~uphold
rinda~lift
rindang~descendants
rindang~evidence
rinding~each
rinding~all
rinding~all together
rinereng~seen
ringgang~cracked
ringgarung~forest goat
ringgarung~deer
ringgas~diligent
ringgas~enterprising
ringgas~persistent
ringgas~diligent
ringgas~helpful
ringgas~Spry
ringgasma~be diligent
ringgit~money
ringgit~ringgit
ringkang~timeless
ringkang~free
ringkang~peeled off
ringkiringki~ovaries
ringkiringki~crossbreed
ringkot~funny
ringkot~urge
ringkot~important
ringkot~need
ringo~noisy
ringo~create a frenzy
ringo~noisy
ringo~boisterous
rinsan~line up
rinsan~damping
rinsan~accompaniment
rinsan~ripped
rinsir~glide quickly
rinsir~can move
rinsir~slip
rinsir~light
rinsur~taper
rinsur~pointed
rinsur~sharp
rintahan~booty
rintahan~jolt
rinte~line
rinte~row
rintik~striped
rintik~crazy
rintik~Crazy
rintik~crazy
rintopan~itchy rash
rintopan~irritation
rio~seldom
rio~not tight
rior~search
ripas~perish
ripas~destroyed
ripas~dead
ripas~destroyed
ripas~extinct
ripe~only
ripe~only
ripe~wife
ripe~wife
ripe~just
ripe~time
ripehu~my wife
ripenai~his wife
ripenai~his wife
ripuk~broken
ripuk~crushed
ripur~perish
ripur~disappeared
ripur~all die
ripur~disappear
ripur~extinct
riris~in a row
riris~lined up
riris~neat
riris~system
riris~evenly divided
ririt~looking for a soulmate
ririt~apply
ririt~choose
ririt~betel nut
ririton~application
ris~for
ris~Enough
ris~equally
ris~evenly divided
ris~rationed
risa~philosophy
risa~discussion
risa~consideration
risi~rough
risi~uneven
risik~Be careful
risik~Be careful
risik~explore
risik~thorough
risirisi~coarse
risirisi~rough
riskin~dry
riskin~thin
riting~grumpy
riting~bringas
riting~talkative
riting~furious
riting~angry
riting~angry
riting~angry person
riting~likes to fight
ritting~fierce
ro~rise
ro~come
ro~present
ro~stop by
ro~come on stage
ro~arrive
ro~down
roa~dilapidated
roa~bad
roa~old
roa~wicked
roa~Bad
roa~dirty
roa~seedy
roa~weathered
robean~Hill
robean~foothills
robi~happy
robi~long time ago
robi~long
robo~collapsed
robo~collapse
robo~fell
robu~never do it
robu~taboo
robung~collapsed
robung~collapse
robung~droopy
robung~slumber
robung~bamboo shoots
robungrobung~curve
robungrobung~hole
robus~boiled
roda~wheel
rodi~until
rodi~forced labor
rodi~order
rodi~rodi
rodi~until
rodina~so that
rodo~come
rodo~coming
rodot~fertile
rogos~swipe
rogos~touch
roha~sense
roha~mind
roha~good will
roha~heart
roha~heart
roha~desire
roha~Meaning
roha~feeling
roha~thought
roha~flavor
rohahi~my feelings
rohahon~monitor
rohahon~take note
rohahu~my heart
rohahu~my feelings
roham~your heart
roham~your feelings
roham~you like
rohami~your heart
rohami~your feelings
rohamima~your heart
rohamma~your heart
rohamu~your heart
rohamu~your feelings
rohamuma~your heart
rohana~his heart
rohana~his wish
rohana~his will
rohana~his feelings
rohana~his attention
rohana~it feels like
rohani~his heart
rohani~his feelings
rohanima~your heart
roharoha~subterfuge
roharoha~arbitrarily
rohop~near
rojan~diarrhea
rojan~dysentery
rojan~greedy
rojan~whooping disease
rojanon~dysentery
roma~Rome city
roma~come on
roma~Rome
roma~come
rombang~suitable
rombang~type
rombang~harmonious
rombang~in accordance
rombuk~hole
rombuk~translucent
rompakrompak~dregs
rompakrompak~dirt
rompakrompak~rubbish
rompar~thrown away
rompar~thrown
rompas~collapse
rompas~collapsed
rompas~collapse
rondang~popcorn
rondang~light
rondang~easy
rondang~ray
rondang~rise
rondangma~come out
rondo~rainy season
rondo~kingdom
rongang~greedy
rongat~esophagus
rongat~throat
ronggang~burrow
ronggang~hole
ronggos~Busy
ronggur~thunder
ronggur~thunder
ronggur~lightning
rongit~mosquito
rongkanan~section
rongkanan~part
rongkanan~block
rongkanan~class
rongkanan~group
rongkap~partner
rongkap~harmony
rongkap~one heart
rongkaphi~my soul mate
rongkaphu~my soul mate
rongkapmi~your soul mate
rongkapmu~your soul mate
rongking~firm
rongkom~alphabet
rongkom~print
rongkom~painting
rongom~flock
rongom~crowded
rongom~crowd
rongom~come in groups
rongom~crowded
rongrong~collapsed
rongrong~collapse
ronsam~muddy
ronsam~muddy
ronsam~dirty
ronsam~unclean
ronse~Bad
ronse~it is not in accordance with
ropami~your appearance
ropang~smashed
ropang~destroyed
ropang~fall out
ropanghon~destroy it
ropanghon~drop it
ropo~shackles
ropo~rope
roprop~collapsed
ropuk~crushed
roro~raid
roro~labrak
roro~unplug
roro~emit
roro~seize
roro~sambar
roro~ambush
roro~ramming
roro~bill
roro~destroyed
rorot~foster
rorot~cradle
rorot~keep
rorot~take care
ros~urge
rosom~habit
rosu~familiar
rosu~friendly
rosu~intimate
rosu~fall in love
rosu~gentle
rosu~Like
rotak~blackened
rotak~filthy
rotak~dirty
rotak~dirty
rotak~dirty
rotak~seedy
rotak~stain
rotak~pollution
rotap~hole
roti~bread
rotong~scorched
ruak~presumptuous
ruak~roomy
ruak~wide
ruak~big hole
ruang~burrow
ruang~hole
ruang~cavity
ruang~room
ruangna~the hole
ruar~outside
ruarna~the outside
ruas~member
ruas~bamboo part
ruas~grass part
ruas~congregation
ruas~personal
ruas~segment
ruas~temperature
ruas~people
ruasna~its members
rudang~sour
rudang~male flowers
rugi~is lost
rugi~bankrupt
rugi~make a loss
rugirugi~fern
rugun~heavy
rugun~lush
rugun~shady
rugut~measles
rugut~fall
ruhotruhot~shake
ruhotruhot~shake
ruhotruhot~not sturdy
ruhut~customs
ruhut~rule
ruhut~right
ruhut~customs
ruhut~rule
ruhut~regulation
ruhut~exactly
ruhut~order
ruhutruhut~rule
ruhutruhut~fatwa
ruhutruhut~rule
ruhutruhut~regulation
ruhutruhut~program
ruhutruhut~order
ruhutruhut~Constitution
rujak~salad
rujak~stab
rujak~stab
rujiruji~calculation
rujiruji~consideration
rujiruji~forecast
ruma~House
rumang~form
rumang~image
rumang~description
rumang~type
rumang~category
rumang~similar
rumang~variety
rumang~appearance
rumang~similar
rumang~characteristic
rumang~figure
rumang~looks
rumangna~the picture
rumangna~his figure
rumangna~looks
rumangna~his looks
rumar~finished
rumar~haram
rumar~blank
rumar~wandering
rumar~does not contain
rumar~not polite
rumba~forest
rumbuk~suitable
rumbuk~harmonious
rumbuk~in accordance
rumbungan~cylinder
rumbungan~tube
rumondang~moon
rumondang~ray
rumpak~collapse
rumpak~collapsed
rumpak~collapse
rumpak~fell
rumtum~assemble
runding~discuss
runding~consensus
runding~discussion
runding~crowded
runding~negotiate
rundo~aplus
rundo~turn
rundo~patrol
rundut~chaotic
rundut~tangled
rundut~quaint
rundut~complicated
rundut~complicated
rundut~complicated
rundut~excited
runduti~mess it up
rungap~blow
rungga~sharp objects
rungga~thorns
rungga~standing branches
runggang~fall
runggang~fell backwards
runggar~loose
runggu~frequently
runggu~crowd
runggu~collected
runggu~collected
rungka~started
rungka~free
rungka~open mind
rungka~arise
rungkung~neck
rungkungmu~your neck
rungkup~contradictory
rungkup~opposite
rungkup~not compatible
rungkup~not harmonious
rungrung~take it out
runjat~Ulos name
runjat~tenuous
runjat~not tight
runsar~chaotic
runsar~tangled
runsing~weapon
runsit~thorough
runsur~bankrupt
runsur~slip
runsur~sagging
runsur~slide
runsur~slide
runtus~Hurry up
runtus~angry
runtus~quick
runtus~haste
rupa~form
rupa~model
rupa~paras
rupa~appearance
rupa~appearance
rupa~figure
rupa~looks
rupa~face
rupam~your face
rupami~your form
rupana~looks
rupana~his looks
rupana~his face
rupana~form
rupani~for example
rupi~gloomy
rura~valley
rurus~falling
rurus~fall
rurus~drop it
rurus~fall out
rurus~drop it
rusak~destroyed
rusak~melted
rusak~sad
rusuk~ribs
rusuk~lateral
rusuk~rib
rusuk~stab
rutu~knot
rutu~book
rutu~wooden eyes
sa~bored
sa~Enough
sa~his
sa~satisfied
saae~feels like
saahap~feels like
saama~father
saase~offerings
saba~wetlands
saba~ricefield
saba~wet ground
sabagas~one house
sabagas~deep
sabagas~same house
sabalga~as big as
sabam~tolerant
sabam~resigned
sabam~Be patient
sabam~like
sabam~steadfast
sabam~trust
sabam~be firm in mind
sabam~entertained
sabangso~compatriots
sabangunan~one piece of equipment
sabangunan~pair
sabanua~world
sabar~generous
sabar~Be patient
sabarma~Be patient
sabas~satisfied
sabas~like
sabashon~satisfy
sabat~obstacle
sabat~obstacle
sabat~constraint
sabat~obstacle
sabat~Sabbath
sabatsabat~obstacle
sabatsabat~obstacle
sabbagas~deep
sabe~chilli
sabe~sabe
sabesabe~grooming
sabesabe~decoration
sabesabe~sawer
sabesabe~shawl
sabi~sickle
sabi~horrified
sabi~lawn mower
sabi~cut
sabi~sickle
sabi~fierce
sabi~mustard
sabi~mustard greens
sabiji~A
sabiji~a grain
sabile~as small
saboi~as much as possible
saboi~as possible
saboi~as much as possible
sabola~track
sabola~side
sabola~adjacent
sabola~side
sabolahu~beside me
sabonarna~Actually
sabonarna~To be honest
sabor~Be patient
saborngin~one night
saborngin~overnight
saborngin~all night long
sabotol~bottle
sabotulna~Actually
sabotulna~actually
sabuk~loincloth
sabuk~underwear
sabuk~belt
sabulan~a month
sabungan~Rooster
sabungan~fighting cock
sabungan~parent
sabungan~core
sabur~spilled
sabur~bulk
sabur~fall
sabur~hoarse
sabur~sprinkle
sabur~stock
sabur~spilled
saburhon~lavished
saburhon~rasped
saburhon~sprinkle
saburhon~spread it
saburju~as good as
saburjuna~should
sabutuha~one stomach
sada~1
sada~One
sada~the only one
sada~something
sada~solid
sada~solo
sada~single
sadado~the only one
sadai~feels like
sadalan~in line
sadao~so far
sadape~none
sadari~a day
sadari~all day
sadasa~Alone
sadeba~part
sadenggan~as good as
sadengganna~should
sadi~stop
sadia~How many
sadihari~when
sadihari~when
sadihari~at what time
sadihari~When
sadu~carriage
sadu~hansom
sadu~carriage
sadu~gig
sadu~sado
sae~end
sae~done
sae~clean
sae~Enough
sae~finish
sae~past
sae~wandering
sae~finished
sae~subsided
sae~finished
sae~Already
sae~finished
sae~not done
sae~finished
saedo~finished
saedo~finished
saehon~finish
saem~change
saem~ransom
saema~enough
saep~finished
saep~blank
saep~diverter
saep~separated
saep~hopeless
saep~Be patient
saep~finished
saep~reparation
saep~it's past
saep~has passed
saep~sacrifice
saetek~as small
saeteng~as small
saga~small
sagal~full
sagala~Sagala clan
sagala~sagala
sagala~all
sagala~all
sagala~eldest
sagalas~one glass
sagalas~glass
sagan~disinclined
sagan~reluctant
sagandeng~pair
sagang~blank
sagang~quiet
sagang~free
sagang~quiet
sagang~lonely
saganjang~throughout
sagari~even
sagarina~if
sagat~light up
sagat~delicious
sagat~satisfied
sage~straw
sagi~for
sagi~for assignments
sagi~facet
sagi~elbow
sagi~corner
sagogo~as strong
sagok~completely
sagonop~all
sagu~sago
sagu~marrow
saguman~each
saguman~entirely
saguman~all
sagumul~a lump
sagunda~very
sahal~sharp
sahal~sharp, piercing taste
sahala~spirits
sahala~wisdom
sahala~charisma
sahala~greatness of authority
sahala~glory
sahala~spirit
sahala~visible
sahala~authority
sahalak~one person
sahalak~Alone
sahalak~alone
sahalak~a
sahalakdo~itself
sahalakkon~alone
sahalakna~himself, herself
sahalakna~self
sahalakna~alone
sahalakni~itself
sahalam~your spirit
sahalamu~your spirit
sahalana~his spirit
sahali~one time
sahali~very
sahalian~all
sahalisahali~seldom
sahalisahali~sometimes
sahalisahali~once in a while
sahap~stamp
sahap~seal
sahap~seal
sahap~stamp
saharan~dam
sahasiang~world
sahat~achieved
sahat~submitted
sahat~finish
sahat~until
sahat~reach
sahat~until
sahat~finished
sahat~materialized
sahat~arrive
sahat????????????????~until
sahata~compact
sahata~consensus
sahata~sure
sahata~one heart
sahata~seia
sahata~agree
sahata~one word
sahata~agreed
sahatma~come
sahatma~come
sahatop~as soon as possible
sahatopna~as soon as possible
sahe~surgery
sahei~surgery
sahetek~as small
sahibulna~completely
sahilala~feels like
sahimpalna~completely
sahira~like
sahirahira~rather
sahirahira~approximately
sahirahira~as
sahirahira~approx
sahirana~if
sahiri~mouse
sahit~disease
sahit~Sick
sahitan~suffer
sahitan~suffering from disease
sahitan~Sick
sahiti~hurt
sahitmu~your pain
sahitna~the disease
sahumpal~a lump
sahuta~one village
sahuta~village
sai~over and over again
sai~perhaps
sai~hopefully
sai~Hopefully
sai~at all
sai~always
sai~always
sai~Hopefully
sai~often
sai~so
sai~constantly
saihur~one
saing~competitive clans
saing~quarrel
saing~resistance
saing~competition
saingkon~should
saingkondo~should
sainona~feels like
sair~scattered
sair~hoarse
sajabu~same house
sajalan~in line
sajo~only
sajo~only
sajo~just
sajo~time
sajom~one hour
sajom~an hour
sajoma~just
sajoma~just do it
sajongkal~an inch
saksak~sparkling
saksak~clean
saksak~pure white
saksak~raw white
saksi~rule
saksi~provision
saksi~witness
sakti~magic
sal~shawl
sala~guilty
sala~sin
sala~lack
sala~error
sala~injustice
sala~has shortcomings
sala~Wrong
salahon~blame
salahu~my fault
salaiba~my fault
salak~snakefruit
salaksak~bald
salaksak~forehead
salaksak~slippery
salaksakna~his forehead
salala~feels like
salamat~regards
salamat~target
salamat~Happy
salamat~Adieu
salana~wrong
salang~even
salang~even
salang~currently
salang~whereas
salang~hose
salanghon~whereas
salaoar~trousers
salaoar~drawstring
salapsap~forehead
salapsapna~his forehead
salasala~awry
salasala~You might be
saleleng~during
saleleng~during
saleleng~throughout
salelengna~forever
salelengna~always
salendang~sash
salendang~shawl
salese~break even
salese~paid off
sali~borrow
sali~borrow
salik~slander
salik~cunning
salik~quipped
salimut~blanket
salin~different
salin~otherwise
salin~other
salisi~difference
salisi~quarrel
salisi~dispute
salisi~seize
salisi~difference
salisi~quarrel
salit~hard
salit~difficult
sallangon~food
sallot~hooked
sallot~stuck
salobina~the rest
salomo~as you like
salomom~as you like
salomona~as he pleases
salong~pick
saloni~very
saloni~once through
salpu~passed
salpu~Then
salpu~past
salpu~past
salpu~finished
salpu~already
salpu~missed
salpu~finished
salpuhon~miss it
salpuhon~finish
salpui~skip
salsal~can be seen
salsal~appear
salsal~seems clear
salsal~looks
salsal~bright
saluhut~all
saluhut~all over
saluhut~all
saluhut~completely
saluhut~eldest
saluhut~total
saluhut!~all
saluhutna~everything
saluhutna~at a time
saluhutna~entirely
saluhutna~everything
saluhutna!~everything
saluhutna?~everything
saluhutnah~everything
saluhutnna~everything
saluhutnya~everything
salumbung~sarong
sama~together
sama~The same
samahon~match
samak~blur
samak~blurry
samak~faint
samak~not clear
samak~not bright
samansam~one kind
samansam~one kind
samansam~kind
samansam~sort of
samansam~uniform
samar~poison
samar~infected
samarga~family
samata~just
sambagi~part
sambagian~one part
sambagian~part
sambahir~half
sambal~chilli sauce
sambalging~a sliver
sambalging~piece
sambalging~naked
samban~adang
samban~prop
samban~hinder
samban~latitude
samban~crossbar
samban~barrier
samban~brisket
sambangging~a lump of meat
sambangging~piece
sambar~false
sambar~Wrong
sambar~switched
sambar~abnormal
sambariba~part
sambariba~adjacent
sambariba~half
sambariba~half
sambatis~adjacent
sambil~net
sambil~snare
sambil~fishing rod
sambil~trap
sambil~mine
sambing~only
sambing~only
sambing~always
sambing~just
sambing~simply
sambing~simply
sambing~time
sambok~whip
sambok~whip
sambok~whip
sambola~adjacent
sambola~half
sambola~half
sambola~half
sambor~bad
sambor~wretched
sambor~Unlucky
samborngin~overnight
sambubu~cantel
sambubu~crown
sambulo~afterlife
sambulo~breed
sambulo~afterlife world
sambulo~ancestral land
sambulo~place of Origin
samburan~very surprised
samburan~startled
same~seeds
same~seedling
samo~normal
samon~blur
samon~dew
samon~blurry
samon~fog
samon~dimly lit
samot~dowry
sampak~measles
sampak~throw
sampak~tempias
sampak~absorbed
sampal~Slash
sampan~boat
sampan~canoe
sampang~there is time
sampang~paint
sampang~still enough
sampang~had time
sampar~epidemic
sampat~measles
sampat~blow
sampat~throw
sampat~slow
sampe~even
sampe~until
sampe~full
sampe~until
sampe~so that
sampe~arrive
sampesampe~shawl
sampisik~only one
sampisik~a grain
sampohul~your style
sampohul~handful
samponggol~part
samponggol~piece
samponggol~piece
sampongkuk~your style
sampongkuk~handful
sampur~copulate
sampur~mix
sampur~join
sampur~mix
sampuri~interfere
samuk~haram
samuk~dirty
samuk~unclean
samuk~abstinence
san~there
sandang~pregnant
sandang~clothing
sandar~lean
sandar~perch
sandar~surup
sande~rest
sandean~backrest
sanding~sanding
sanding~enemy
sanding~enemy
sandiri~Alone
sandirian~alone
sandirianna~alone
sandirina~itself
sandok~in short
sandok~in short
sandok~all
sandok~all over
sandok~completely
sandok~he stressed
sandung~machete
sandung~machete
sang~the
sanga~had time
sangajo~on purpose
sangap~great
sangap~Noble hearted
sangap~good fortune
sangap~respected
sangap~respect
sangap~glorious
sangap~worthy of respect
sangap~success
sange~round
sange~all
sange~the most
sange~spread out
sangga~Still
sangga~while
sangga~moment
sangga~while
sanggak~amazed
sanggam~authority
sanggeap~fell
sanggeap~fell
sanggele~obstacle
sanggele~obstacle
sanggih~advanced
sanggim~your style
sanggim~handful
sanggolom~your style
sanggolom~one handful
sanggolom~handful
sanggotap~piece
sanggum~graceful
sanggum~complete clothing
sanghae~quarter
sangharair~throughout
sangharimpang~one comb
sangharimpang~part
sangharimpang~group
sangharimpang~a bunch
sangharimpang~comb
sanghibung~one seed
sanghibung~a fruit
sanghibung~one piece
sanghibung~A
sanghibung~piece
sanghorot~a sliver
sanghorot~piece
sangkam~familiar
sangkam~tightly
sangkam~appropriate
sangkamata~part
sangkamata~one
sangkambiur~a grain
sangkambiur~sprig
sangkan~appropriate
sangkap~ambition
sangkap~hope
sangkap~dream
sangkap~want to
sangkap~Meaning
sangkap~interest
sangkap~intention
sangkap~plan
sangkapapan~petai
sangkapi~Meaning
sangkapi~intend
sangkapmu~your dream
sangkapmu~You mean
sangkapmu~your intentions
sangkapna~his dream
sangkapna~It means
sangkapna~his intention
sangkarambar~one sheet
sangkarambar~A
sangkarambar~piece
sangkaraung~sprig
sangkarimpang~sprig
sangke~hanging
sangke~hanger
sangketa~dispute
sangketa~quarrel
sangketa~dispute
sangketo~dispute
sangketo~quarrel
sangketo~dispute
sangkil~most
sangkil~more than
sangkilik~fleas
sangkilik~dog fleas
sangkilik~pangolin
sangkir~cup
sangkir~glass
sangko~Given attention to
sangko~beautify it
sangkohok~hard
sangkohok~difficult
sangkop~throw away
sangkop~measles
sangkop~cauldron
sangkop~pot hood
sangkop~cover the cauldron
sangkop~close the pot
sangkot~hook
sangkot~hanging
sangkot~hooked
sangkot~involved
sangkot~bound
sangkot~related
sangkot~just hanging on
sangkul~hoe
sangkul~hoe
sangkut~gancu
sangkut~hook
sangkut~hook
sangombas~very
sangombas~at a time
sangombas~a moment
sangombas~instantly
sangombas~annuals
sangombas~around time
sangombas~moment
sangse~wandering around
sangse~adrift
sangse~lost
sangsi~undecided
sangsi~hesitant
sanoli~very
sansan~torn fabric
sansan~clothes
sanseat~piece
sanseat~side
sansihit~piece
santabi~Sorry
santabi~excuse me
santabi~Excuse me
santabi~respectful speech
santallik~piece
santampuk~one stalk
santampuk~sprig
santanggo~piece
santi~offerings
santi~worship
santik~Beautiful
santikna~beautiful
santipul~piece
santisanti~sacrifice
santisanti~offering
santisanti~offerings
santokin~temporary
santopak~footpath
santopik~a little
santopik~A little
santua~mouse
santuho~part
santun~civilized
santun~civilized
santun~urbane
santun~virtuous
santun~polite
santuntum~a bunch
santurpuk~part
sao~anchor
sao~sapodilla
saok~gongseng
saok~fry
saoloan~agreed
saolting~A little
saong~roof
saong~shade
saong~umbrella
saong~hood
saongsaong~roof
saongsaong~hood
saonnari~lately
saonnari~now
saonnari~At the moment
saonnari~Now
saor~blend
saor~mingle
saor~mix
saor~join
saor~slang
saotik~minority
saotik~a little
saotik~A little
saotik~a handful
saotikpe~even a little bit
sap~smeared
sap~smeared
sap~stamp
sap~defiled
sap~polluted
sapala~clumsy
sapala~absurd
sapala~while
sapandapot~agree
sapandokan~one word
sapandokan~agree
sapangantusion~knowledge
sapangantusion~as far as I know
sapanjang~during
sapanjang~throughout
saparbinotoan~knowledge
saparbinotoan~as far as I know
saparmeaman~play
saparmeaman~same age
saparopat~quarter
sapasang~one in tandem
sapasang~pair
sapata~consequence
sapata~karma
sapata~damned
sapata~curse
sapatutna~appropriately
sapatutna~appropriately
sapatutna~duly
sapatutna~appropriately
sapi~compatibility matters
sapi~rhythm
sapi~similar
sapi~similar
sapikkiran~one heart
sapikkiran~agree
sapikkiran~in line
sapikkiran~of one mind
sapiri~when
sapiri~If
sapiri~if
sapomparan~family
sapor~palm fiber
sapor~palm wine filter
saportibi~world
sapot~a bit bitter
sapot~sour
sapot~chelate
sapot~astringent
sapot~sharp
sapu~smeared
sapu~broom
sapui~rub
saputsaput~package
saputsaput~wrapping
saputsaput~cover
sar~broadcast
sar~famous
sar~reported
sar~spread out
sar~spread
sara~scattered
sara~scattered
sara~method
sara~scattered
saragam~one kind
saragam~kind
saragam~sort of
saragam~uniform
sarahu~my way
sarak~fell scattered
sarak~equally
sarak~hoarse
sarak~scattered
saraksaruk~chaotic
saraksaruk~messed up
saraksaruk~ravaged
saraksaruk~irregular
sarana~The method
sarangsang~catch
sarangsang~pounce
sarangsang~attack
sarasa~feels like
sarasara~broom
saratus~100
saratus~one hundred
sarbut~plunder
sarbut~flinch
sarenta~fellow
sargang~sprawl
sargang~fell down
sargang~straddle
sarge~scattered
sarge~scattered
sarge~scattered
sarge~sprinkle
sargesarge~decompose
sari~search
sari~gout
sari~look after
sari~care
sari~think
sari~think think
sari~taken care of
saribu~1000
saribu~one thousand
saridondon~climb
saridondon~climb the body
saridondon~dirt
saridondon~dirty body
saridondon~mud
sarihon~earn a living
sarihon~care
sarikkat~gathering
sarikkat~union
sarikkat~company
sarima~look for it
sarimpang~part
sarimpang~a sliver
sarimpang~series
saringan~sieve
saringan~filter
saringan~filter
saringan~filter
saringar~ring
saringar~echo
saringar~echo
saringar~ring out
saringar~loud
saringar~sound reflection
saringar~famous
saringgok~cry
saringgok~groan
saringgok~everyone wailed
saringgok~roaring
saringkat~group
saripe~family
saripe~family
saripe~husband and wife
saripehu~my wife
saririt~a bunch
saririt~pile
sarita~story
sarita~suffering
sarita~disappointed
sarita~history
sarita~regret
saritahon~tell me
saritai~tell me
saritam~your story
saritamu~your story
sarnat~fell down
sarnat~lying down
sarnat~fell
saroha~one heart
saroha~one heart
saroha~agree
saroha~agreed
saroha~feels like
sarsar~destroyed
sarsar~broken
sarsar~crushed
sarune~a type of clarinet
sarune~fife
sarune~trumpet
sarupa~balanced
sarupa~inclined
sarupa~barrel
sarupa~match
sarupa~The same
sarupa~aligned
sarupa~worth it
sarupa~uniform
sarupa~similar
sarupa~in accordance
sarupama~same thing
sarupama~similar
sarut~bite
sasada~just
sasada~Alone
sasada~alone
sasada~single
sasadaon~alone
sasadasa~alone
sasadia~a number of
sasahali~seldom
sasahali~once in a while
sasahali~occasionally
sasahat~arrived
sasahat~suddenly
sasaluhut~everything
sasangkir~cup
sasangkir~glass
sasara~in a way
saserong~as big as
sasintongna~essence
sasintongna~true
sasintongna~validity
sasintongna~Actually
sasintongna~actually
sasintongna~appropriately
sasintongna~should
sasolup~wander
sassude~everything
sasude~all
sasude~all
sasude~all over
sasude~all
sasude~all of them
sasude~eldest
sasude!~everything
sasude?~everything
sasudena~everything
sasudena~at a time
sasudena~everything
sasudena!~everything
sasudena?~everything
sasudena??~everything
sasudenaa~everything
sasudenah~everything
sasudenya~everything
sasuhatan~size
satabo~as delicious
satahi~one heart
satahi~one heart
satahi~agree
satahi~accomplice
satahi~agreed
satahi~agree
satangkar~put
satangkirisap~A moment
satangkirisap~for a moment
sataon~one year
sataon~a year
saterge~feels like
satia~loyal
satingkosna~appropriately
satingting~all
sato~mix
satoi~scold
satoi~nosy
satolap~as much as possible
satolap~as much as possible
satolop~consensus
satolop~agree
satolop~agreed
satolop~agree
satolopi~agree
satolopp~agree
satondong~family
satonga~half
satonga~half
satonga~half
satongkin~A moment
satongkin~for a moment
satongkin~moment
satongkin?~A moment
satorbang~contemporaries
satorbang~peer
satorbang~same age
satorbang~same age
satorusna~furthermore
satorusna~so on
satua~mouse
satulus~sincerely
satulus~sincerely
satuptupan~one word
satutuna~Actually
satutuna~actually
satutur~family
saudagar~trader
saudagar~merchant
saudara~glow
saudara~blood
saudara~glory
saudara~meat food
saudara~facial light
saudoudo~peer
saudoudo~friends
saudoudo~ally
sauduran~simultaneously
sauduran~together
sauduran~compact
sauduran~one group
sauduran~one way
sauduran~a row
sauduran~a flock
sauduran~agree
sauli~as beautiful
sauli~as beautiful
saumur~peer
saumur~lifetime
saumur~same age
sauo~sapodilla
saurdot~in tune
saut~valid
saut~achieved
saut~So
saut~happen
saut~accomplished
sautna~so
sea~don't do it
seakseak~shell
seang~useful
seang~wasted
seang~take advantage
seang~wasted
seang~stated
seat~slit
seat~butcher
seat~cut
seat~stoning
seat~I t
seat~slaughter
sedan~sedan
sega~reject
sega~dilapidated
sega~devastated
sega~broken-down
sega~chaotic
sega~weathered
sega~congested
sega~strike
sega~broken
sega~trashy
sega~damaged
sega~soak
segai~damaged
segai~break it
segai~disheveled
seganjang~throughout
sege~sift
sege~wink
sehang~straddle
sehang~tenuous
sehat~Healthy
sehirana~if
sekaliling~around
sekka~wipe
sembat~replacement
sembat~reparation
semo~blurry
sending~gospel message
sending~sending
sending~zending
sendor~cendol
sendor~dawet
senen~Monday
sengkasengka~shawl
sengsang~cancelled
sengsang~abolished
sengsang~invalid
sengseng~upset
sengseng~not fixed
seo~duty
seo~cost
seo~excise
seo~tax
seo~rent
seo~tribute
seol~shake
serak~messy
serak~scatter
serak~spread
serak~hoarse
serak~sprinkle
serak~stock
serbeng~lyrics
sere~gemstones
sere~gold
sere~precious metal
sere~lively
serep~kind
serep~near the ground
serep~under
serep~humble
serep~not arrogant
serhe~gentle
seri~series
sernep~asleep
sernep~restful
sernep~flooded
serser~A little
serser~does not mean
sesa~forgive
sesa~wipe
sesude~everything
setan~demon
seua~rent
sia~9
sia~nine
siadongan~treasure
siadongan~property
siadopan~wife
siadopan~wife
siadopan~husband
siaginon~this earth
siaginon~This world
siaginon~suffering
siaha~Who
siaha~sipolan
siahapon~fate
siahapon~suffering
siahapon~dependents
siak~spicy
siak~painful
sial~Unlucky
sial~not lucky
siala~because
siala~Because
siala~therefore
siala~reason
sialabane~allotment
sialabane~section name
sialabane~allotment
siallang~eat
siallang~eater
siallangon~food
siambolong~dregs
siambolong~scumbag
siambolong~worthless
siampudan~bloated child
siampudan~youngest child
siampudan~youngest
siampudan~youngest
siamun~right
siamun~snack
sian~from
sian~by
sian~realized
sian~since
sian~via
siang~subsided
siang~shady
siang~bright
sianjuaonon~forgiven
sianu~sipolan
siap~finished
siap~destroyed
siap~blank
siap~every
siap~cursed
siapari~awaited
siapari~every day
siapul~entertainer
siarari~long pole
siarari~long stick
siarudan~helper
siarudan~supporter
siarum~spinach
siarum~spinach
siasia~wasteful
siasia~nine - nine
siat~can enter
siat~noticed
siat~accepted
siat~understand
siat~make friends
siat~load
siat~granted
sibagur~frog
sibagur~squawking frog
sibagur~frog
sibahe~rock
sibahen~what makes
sibahenbahen~work
sibahenon~contribution
sibahenon~giving
sibahenonna~his gift
sibahut~catfish
sibahut~catfish
sibahuton~dispersed
sibahuton~conversation interrupted
sibak~torn
sibanggua~forbidden
sibar~form
sibar~pattern
sibar~appearance
sibar~figure
sibaran~wretched
sibaran~fate
sibaran~destiny
sibasabasa~grace
sibasabasa~blessing
sibasabasa~present
sibasabasa~gift
sibasabasa~giving
sibaso~midwife
sibaso~witch doctor
sibaso~midwife
sibejek~Money
siboan~carrier
siboanon~default
siboanon~load
siboanon~small gifts
sibolis~devil
sibolis~demon
sibondut~swallower
sibor~fierce
sibor~malignant
sibor~fierce
sibor~crazy
sibor~dizziness
sibor~Dizzy
sibujonggir~house lizard
sibuk~meat
sibuksibuk~fleshy
sidada~pimple
sidalian~reason
sidalian~pretext
sidalianna~the reason
sidalianna~his excuse
sidangdangan~replacement
sidangolon~grief
sidangolon~destitution
sidangolon~sadness
sidangolon~suffering
sidangolon~miserable
sidangolonhi~my suffering
sidegedegean~stampede
sidegeon~stampede
sidegeon~footing
siderengon~Money
siding~avoid
siding~Far
siding~missed
siding~move aside
siding~set aside
siding~remote location
sidir~wrong
sidir~Wrong
sidoli~youth
sidoli~sijejaka
sidonganna~her friend
sidung~end
sidung~end
sidung~done
sidung~passed
sidung~finished
sidung~finished
sidung~Ready
sidung~finished
sidung~finished
sidungdo~finished
siganjang~long
siganup~every
siganupari~awaited
siganupari~every day
sigap~deft
sigap~spontaneous
sigat~search
sigat~check
sigati~search
sigodang~Lots
sigomgom~ruler
sigop~Spry
sigop~fast
sigop~quick
sigop~Spry
sigop~agile
sigulandak~porcupine quills
sigulandak~Porcupine
sigumorsing~gold
sigurudokhu~drunk
sihabiaran~sacred
sihabiaran~which is feared
sihabiaron~scared
sihabunian~confidential
sihabunian~hidden
sihabunian~which is hidden
sihahaan~eldest brother
sihahaan~firstborn child
sihahaan~oldest brother
sihahaan~damn
sihahaan~eldest
sihahaan~oldest
sihangoluhon~life
sihap~Spry
sihap~used to
sihapodea~liar
sihapodea~snob
sihapodea~chatterbox
sihapor~grasshopper
sihar~enthusiastic
sihar~bright
sihar~cheerful
sihar~happy
sihar~cheerful
sihar~ray
sihar~tough
sihar~bright
siharsihar~Embarrassed
sihasolhotan~relatives
sihat~line
sihataon~topic
sihataon~gossip
sihataon~talk
sihataon~subject of discussion
sihil~shrill
sihil~loud
sihil~high pitch
sihir~nearly gone
sihir~exactly
sihir~appropriate
sihirpit~coward
sihit~cold weather
sihit~puck
sihit~crooked
sihol~wish
sihol~Miss
sihol~desire
sihol~desire to meet
sihol~longing
sihol~the feeling of missing
sihol~Miss
siholan~miss
siholhi~I miss you
siholhu~I miss you
siholmi~miss you
siholmu~miss you
siholna~miss him
siholna~miss him
siholni~miss him
siholni~miss him
sihombing~sihombing
sihotang~sihotang
sihumabang~bird
sihumeap~bird
sihumisik~money
sihumisik~Money
sihumisikna~the money
siihuthonon~example
siinaina~coward
siingoton~memories
siingoton~memory
siingoton~impression
siingoton~that is remembered
siingoton~which is remembered
siingotonna~the memories
siinumon~drink
siinumonmi~your drink
siinumonmu~your drink
sijaluk~monkey
sijaluk~the forest people
sijamaon~work
sijamaon~work
sijulejule~lottery club
sikap~deft
sikap~Spry
sikkola~school
sikkola?~school
sikkolaa~school
sikkolado~his school
sikkolah~school
sikkolah?~school
sikkolana~his school
sikkolani~his school
sikkolat~chocolate
siksak~there was lightning
siksak~shiny
siksak~illuminate
silalahi~Silalahi clan
silalahi~surname
silalahi~please
silameton~heart
silang~crossbar
silang~cross
silang~cross
silangko~disabled
silangko~lack
silangko~ugly trait
silap~careless
silap~wrong
silap~forget
silap~Wrong
silap~mistaken
silbak~split
silbak~cracked
silbak~a sheet
silbak~flakes
silbak~torn
silbak~splinter
silbit~touched briefly
silbit~touchable
silbit~touched
sileanlean~souvenir
sileanlean~present
sileanlean~small gifts
sileanlean~alms
silehon~giver
silehonlehon~charity
silehonlehon~grace
silehonlehon~present
silehonlehon~grant
silehonlehon~gift
silehonlehon~memories
silehonlehon~giving
silehonlehon~donation
silehonlehon~zakat
silehonlehonmu~your gift
silehonlehonmu~your gift
silehonlehonna~his gift
silgang~cracked
sili~Unlucky
sili~not suitable
sili~it is not in accordance with
silimatok~buffalo
silinduat~twins
silinduat~twin
sillak~glow
sillak~bright
sillak~clear
sillak~luster
sillak~meta
sillak~white
sillak~dazzled
sillak~bright
sillam~lightning
sillam~lightning
sillam~lightning
siloas~allowed
silojaloja~worker
silom~Islam
silom~a kind of plant
silonging~silent
silpe~wrong
silpe~papa
silpe~mispronounced
silsil~male genitalia
silsil~testicles
siltak~broken
siltak~cracked
silu~fast
silu~quick
silu~haste
silua~gift
silua~souvenir
silua~present
silua~gift
silua~small gifts
silua~giving
silua~offering
siluana~the prize
siluana~the gift
siluana~souvenirs
siluluton~curse
silupa~fever
silupa~hot
silupaon~malaria
silupaon~forgotten
simadoado~traveler
simadoado~wanderer
simagomago~unemployment
simalolong~eye
simalolonghi~my eyes
simalolonghu~my eyes
simalolongmi~your eyes
simalolongmu~your eyes
simalolongna~his eyes
simalungun~Simalungun
simalungun!~Simalungun
simalungun?~Simalungun
simamora~simamora clan
simamora~simamora
simanabung~mountain
simanangi~ear
simanangi~ear
simanganggo~nose
simangarudok~back
simanggoanggo~sycophant
simanghudap~mouth
simanghusap~mouth
simangido~hand
simangkudap~mouth
simangkudapmi~your mouth
simangkudapmu~your mouth
simangkudapna~his mouth
simanglungun~Simalungun
simangot~spirits
simangot~spirit
simangunsong~simangunsong clan
simangunsong~simangunsong
simanjojak~foot
simanjojakhi~my feet
simanjojakhu~my feet
simanjojakmi~your feet
simanjojakmu~your feet
simanjojakna~his feet
simanjujung~head
simanjujunghi~my head
simanjujunghu~my head
simanjujungmu~your head
simanjujungna~his head
simanjunjungku~my head
simanjuntak~simanjuntak
simaon~ignorant
simaon~contains poison
simarata~vegetables
simarhuruk~chicken
simarjolmajolma~person
simarjolmajolma~a
simarsihala~galangal
simatua~parents in law
simaujung~end
simborgo~cold
simborgo~cool
simbur~grow
simbur~growing fast
simbur~growing fast
simbur~grow up quickly
simbur~drizzling
simbur~drizzle
simbur~drizzling
simbur~dripping
siminik~child
siminik~small child
siminik~great-grandson
siminik~grandchild
siminik~descendants
siminikhu~my child
siminikhu~my great-grandson
siminikhu~my grandson
siminikhu~my descendants
siminikmu~your child
siminikmu~your great-grandson
siminikmu~your grandson
siminikmu~your descendants
siminikna~his son
siminikna~his great-grandson
siminikna~his grandson
siminikna~his descendants
simo~faint
simo~dazzled
simo~hidden
simor~emotion
simor~fierce
simor~malignant
simor~fierce
simor~crazy
simor~annoyed
simpan~done
simpan~Ready
simpan~save
simpang~intersection
simpang~intersection
simpang~T-junction
simpang~intersection
simpar~pass each other
simpar~mixed up
simpul~end
simpul~done
simpul~conclude
simpul~finished
simpul~finished
simpulma~that's it
simpulma~it's over
simu~bacteria
simu~pest
simu~puck
simu~germs
simu~scabies germs
simu~poison
simu~virus
simuk~agile
sina~China
sinabul~proof
sinabul~debate
sinaga~Sinaga clan
sinaga~sinaga
sinamago~disaster
sinamago~problem
sinambul~debate
sinamot~treasure
sinamot~riches
sinamot~dowry
sinamot~dowry
sinamot~owned by
sinamot~income
sinamotmu~your dowry
sinamotmu~your dowry
sinamotna~dowry
sinamotna~the dowry
sinapang~gun
sinar~light
sinar~drying
sinar~nur
sinar~ray
sindak~raised
sindak~upright
sindak~looking up
sindar~light
sindar~ray
singa~description
singa~pattern
singa~lion
singa~sketch
singga~stop by
singgalak~fell
singgalak~fell
singgalak~supine
singgang~knot
singgang~prostrate
singgip~got pulled over once
singgip~nearly gone
singgip~beard clip
singgip~A little
singgip~at a time
singgohan~annoyed
singgohan~sobbing
singgohan~throat hit
singgohan~gasped
singgorik~climb
singit~reluctance
singit~uncomfortable
singkalo~disabled
singkalo~error
singkap~deft
singkat~replacement tool
singkat~change
singkat~replacement
singkat~exchanger
singki~change
singki~exchange
singki~changed
singki~replacement
singkolat~chocolate
singkop~Enough
singkop~finished
singkop~complete
singkop~complete
singkop~adequate
singkop~until
singkop~finished
singkop~finished
singkop~complete
singkor~crisis
singkor~languish
singkor~seok
singkoram~collateral
singkoram~grip
singkoram~guarantee
singkoram~prisoner
singku~elbow
singku~hobo elbow
singku~elbow
sininta~requested
sininta~desired
sinjata~weapon
sinode~discussion
sinok~asleep
sinok~restful
sinok~satisfied
sinok~sound asleep
sinok~calm
sinok~still
sinonangon~chat
sinonangon~chat
sinonangon~chat
sinonangon~light talk
sinondang~shine
sinondang~light
sinondang~sparkling
sinonduk~husband
sinta~Love
sinta~wish
sinta~please
sinta~want to aspire
sinta~request
sinta~crave
sinta~submit
sinta~yearn for
sinta~desire something
sintahan~booty
sintahan~jolt
sintahi~My love
sintahu~My love
sintai~loving
sintak~revoked
sintak~plunder
sintak~flinch
sintak~pull
sintakan~booty
sintakan~jolt
sintamu~your love
sintana~his love
sintap~until
sintap~limited
sintasinta~ambition
sintasinta~dream
sintasinta~hope
sintong~Good
sintong~Correct
sintong~right
sintong~Honest
sintong~exactly
sintong~appropriate
sintongsintong~truly
sintongsintong~truly
sintua~church council
sintua~church worker
sintua~elder
sintua~church elder
sintua~supervisor
sintuhu~formal
sintuhu~seriousness
sintuhu~sincerity
sintuhu~official
sinuan~planted
sinur~breed
sinur~multiply
sinur~fertile
sinurasura~maybe
sinurasura~Possible
sinurbu~burned
sinuriranghon~reported
sinuru~ordered
sio~protect
sio~shade
sio~shady
sio~closed
siol~almost
siol~want to
siol~diligent
siol~like to
sioloan~example
sioloan~role model
sioloan~example
siosio~umbrella
siosio~Haven
siosio~protected
sip~shut up
sip~silent
sip~fall silent
sip~not talking
sip~shut up
sipaboana~signal
sipadot~broom
sipaduruon~exiled
sipagait~joking
sipagait~fool around
sipagait~pretend
sipaigon~rice
sipaingot~advice
sipaingot~advice
sipaingot~reprimand
sipaingot!~remember
sipaingotna~his advice
sipajagarjagar~decoration
sipajagarjagar~brightener
sipak~football
sipak~kick
sipal~wretched
sipal~miserable
sipaluli~Can
sipangago~destroyer
sipangago~liar
sipangago~fraudster
sipangago~destroyer
sipanganon~dish
sipanganon~consumption
sipanganon~food
sipanganon~rice
sipanggaron~remove eggs
sipanggaron~arrogant
sipanggaron~acting up
sipanggaron~uncouth
sipanggaron~so good
sipangunangi~prevent
sipangunangi~obstruct
sipanonggor~eye
sipanudu~index finger
sipanudu~index finger
sipaojak~stand up
sipaotooto~fraudster
sipaotooto~fraud
sipaotooto~craftiness
siparbagahononhon~hopeful
siparbagahononhon~reliable
siparbagaon~mainstay
siparbagaon~pride
siparbagaon~hope
sipareakan~target
sipareakan~objective
sipareon~ear
sipareon~listener
sipareon~ear
sipareonhi~my ears
sipareonhi~my ears
sipareonhu~my ears
sipareonhu~my ears
sipareonmi~your ears
sipareonmi~your ears
sipareonmu~your ears
sipareonmu~your ears
sipargogo~helper
sipargogo~which strengthens
siparjehe~traitor
siparmonang~winner
sipasabam~added
sipasingot~teach
sipasingot~encouragement
sipasingot~advice
sipasingot~advice
sipasingot~warning
sipaso~stop it
sipat~Lots
sipat~means
sipat~very
sipata~there are times
sipata~sometimes
sipata~sometimes
sipata~sometimes
sipata~once in a while
sipata~sometimes
sipatakkas~explain
sipatorang~explained
sipatorangan~explained
sipatu~shoes
sipatu~shoe
sipatudu~warning signs
sipatupaon~work
sipaulaula~hypocritical
sipaulaula~people pretend
sipele~devotee
sipma~be quiet
sipodaon~advice
sipodaon~advice
sipodaon~teaching
sipode~ginger
sipolan~alias
sipolan~sipolan
sipon~pandan
sipujion~image
sipulut~glutinous rice
sipulut~glutinous rice
sipulut~sticky rice
sipulut~pulut
sipulut~snail
sipumpe~children
sipumpe~doll
sipuntung~ant
sipusipu~coals
siput~Busy
sir~excitement
sir~want to
sir~appetite
sir~Like
sira~salt
sira~gunpowder
siram~spray
siram~flush
sirang~divorced
sirang~divorce yourself
sirang~separate
sirang~breakup
sirang~separated
siranghon~divorce
siranghon~Separate
sirapege~spice
sirarion~talk
sirarion~discussion
sirarion~meeting
siregar~siregar clan
siregar~surname
siregar~siregar
sirim~steal
sirimi~steal
sirimpuson~finger
sirngom~finished
sirngom~blank
sirngom~sold out
sirnip~full
sirnip~fully loaded
sirnip~flooded
sirpang~intersection
sirpang~intersection
sirpang~T-junction
sirpang~intersection
sirsir~just right
sirsir~exactly
sirsir~ready
sirsir~Ready
sirsir~appropriate
sirumantos~spear
sirumondang~full moon
sirumondang~bright
siruruson~canyon
sisangunjur~Correct
sisangunjur~Honest
sisangunjur~straight hearted
sisangunjur~appropriate
sisangunjur~wise one
sise~How
sise~tomorrow
sise~layat
sise~who?
sise~ask
sise~scold
sisean~student
sisean~students
sisean~follower
siseon~greeting
siseon~reprimand
sisi~cleavage
sisi~shifted aside
sisi~aside
sisi~avoid
sisi~step aside
sisi~sideways
sisi~opt out
sisi~side
sisi~edge
sisik~skin
sisik~surface
sisik~scale
sisingamangaraja~Sisingamangaraja
sisolhot~bro
sisolhot~family
sisolhot~relatives
sisolhot~best friend
sisolhot~close relative
sisolhot~cousin
sisombaon~worship
sisuan~grower
sisude~in all
sisuruon~servant
sisuruon~waiter
sisuruon~servant
sisuruon~helper
sisuruon~orders
sisuruon~messenger
sitabulan~forehead
sitabulan~crown
sitairon~breasts
sitairon~breast
sitalapang~roomy
sitalapang~wide
sitalapang~wide
sitaon~underwriter
sitaonon~suffering
sitaonon~blow
sitaononhi~my suffering
sitaononhu~my suffering
sitaononmi~your suffering
sitaononmu~your suffering
sitaringotna~he remembered
sitarupon~hair
siteburon~blanket
sitel~cancelled
sitel~stop
sitel~repeat
sitel~repeat
sitempel~stamp
siteuhon~dog
sitik~emotion
sitik~easily offended
sitik~sprain
sitik~angry
sitik~twisted
sitik~not compatible
sitik~it is not in accordance with
sitio~sitio clan
sitiopon~being held
sitiruon~role model
sitiruon~worthy of emulation
sitiruon~example
sitoha~as it happens
sitohotoho~truly
sitohotoho~truly
sitolon~eater
sitoltol~tense
sitompa~creator
sitop~stop
sitop~stop
sitopa~smart
sitopa~craftsman
sitording~regulation
sitording~orderly
sitording~order
sitta~proud
situhoron~groceries
situlison~book
situmandok~grave
situmpak~support
situmpak~supporter
situtu~commitment
situtu~very serious
situtu~determination
situtu~the correct one
siubeon~stomach
siulahonon~work
siulahonon~work
siulahonon~task
siulahononna~his job
siulahononna~his task
siulaon~work
siulaon~work
siulaon~task
siulaonna~his task
siunang~don't
siunsaton~expelled
siunsaton~which was moved
siusungon~default
so~stop
so~No
so~silent
so~stop
so~pause
so~paralysed
so~congested
so~stagnant
so~stuck
so~strike
so~stop
so~not
so~calm
so~fall silent
so~No
soada~No
soada~There isn't any
soal~different opinion
soal~debate
soala~No
soara~sound
soara~tone
soara~voice
soaram~your voice
soarami~your voice
soaramu~your voice
soarana~it sounds
soarana~his voice
sobilak~patenteng
sobo~improved
sobo~subsided
sobo~healed
sobo~calm
sobok~similar to
sobok~The same
sobok~equally
sobok~like
sobok~similar
sobokhon~resemble
sobokhon~match
sobokhon~similar to
sobu~up in arms
sobu~turn on the fire
sobu~free
sobu~exciting
sobu~Busy
sobuon~bran
sobuon~bran
sobuon~husk
soda~chalk
sodap~nice
sodap~delicious
sodap~enjoyment
sodap~delicious
sodiboto~Don't know
soding~Far
soding~lonely
soding~isolated
soding~separately
sodingsoding~silence
sodingsoding~isolated
sodok~dredge
sodok~shovel
sodok~spoon
sogam~noisy
sogam~nervous
sogam~hot
sogan~disinclined
sogan~Afraid
sogar~fresh
sogar~Healthy
sogar~tough
sogarina~if
sogi~facet
sogi~corner
sogir~dangerous
sogir~misbehave
sogir~be careful of
sogir~worried
sogir~alert
sogo~anti
sogo~hate
sogo~irritated
sogo~annoyed
sogo~fed up
sogo~uncomfortable
sogo~annoyed
sogo~disinclined
sogo~Don't want to
sogo~not happy
sogot~Tomorrow
sogot~early in the morning
sogot!~Tomorrow
sogot?~Tomorrow
sogot??~Tomorrow
sogotma~tomorrow
sohal~greedy
sohali~new
sohali~new life
sohali~fresh
sohang~tense
sohang~unreconciled
sohe~retribution
sohe~rent
sohot~stop
sohot~married
sohot~Rest
sohot~marry
sohot~Marry
sohot~finished
soinama~that's it
soksok~origin
soksok~suitable
soksok~annoyed
soksok~start
soksok~harmonious
soksok~in accordance
soksok~source
soksok~appropriate
solam~pious
solam~bored
solam~fed up
solam~pure
solam~pious
solam~holy
solam~trust
solang~prop
solang~obstacle
solang~insert
solat~load
soldadu~soldier
soldadu~soldier
soldadu~soldier
solhot~familiar
solhot~near
solhot~intimate
solhot~intimate
solhot~meeting
solhot~relatives
solhot~not far
solidalu~soldier
sollop~immerse
solo~popular
solo~loved
solo~really like
solo~like
solo~Like
solok~turn
solok~curve
solok~corner
solok~Bend
solosol~regret
solpa~hinder
solpa~hide
solpa~clogged
solpu~Then
solpu~past
solsol~repent
solsol~regret
solsol~repent
solu~getek
solu~canoe
solu~small boat
solu~canoe
solup~bushel
solup~liter
solup~liter size
somak~bush
somal~normal
somal~often
somal~common
somal~normal
somal~often
somalhon~get used to it
somalna~usually
somalo~stupid
somang~landlady
somanna~that's good
somba~defeated
somba~respect
somba~obedient
somba~defeated
somba~submit
sombaiong~prayer
sombaon~worship
sombasomba~I am sorry
sombasomba~offering
sombasomba~prostrate
sombu~let
sombu~light up
sombu~relieved
sombu~satisfied
sombu~like
sombu~fulfilled
sombuhon~vent
sombuhon~satisfy
sombut~damned
somor~angry
somor~angry
somor~chaotic
sompit~narrow
sompong~sudden
sompong~surprised
sompong~suddenly
sompong~not expected
son~let
son~here
sonang~get along
sonang~happy
sonang~cheerful
sonang~happy
sonang~lasting
sonang~relieved
sonang~fun
sonang~cheerful
sonang~Relax
sonang~prosperous
sonang~like
sonang~peaceful
sonang~Like
sonang~calm
sonang?~like
sonanghon~make it happy
sonangkan~have fun
sonangkon~have fun
sonangma~be happy
sonangma~be happy
sonangnai~happy
sondang~light
sondang~nur
sondang~ray
sondang~bright
sondang~rise
sondot~stop
sondot~until
sondot~finished
sondot~finished
sonduk~dip
sonduk~spoon
songe~haunted
songe~scary
songe~vulnerable
songe~scary
songgak~snapped
songgak~rebuked
songgop~perched
songgop~perch
songgot~suddenly
songgot~shock
songgot~sudden
songgot~suddenly
songgot~suddenly
songgotsonggot~impromptu
songgotsonggot~shock
songgotsonggot~worries
songgotsonggot~worry
songgotsonggot~suddenly
songgotsonggot~suddenly
songik~smell
songik~smells bad
songik~fierce
songik~rancid
songit~stings
songit~fierce
songit~tragic
songka~coral
songkal~rough
songkal~glorious
songkal~full of authority
songkal~not approached
songkong~support
songkongan~help
songkongan~support
songkung~respected
songkung~glorious
songkung~dear
songon~rather
songon~like
songon~like
songon~similar
songon~advise
songon~commemorate
songon~exactly
songon~somewhat
songon~feels like
songon~reprimanded
songon~scold
songona~it seems like
songondiado~how
songong~proud
songoni~However
songoni~so
songonima~that's it
songonima~that's all
songonima~that is how it is
songonna~apparently
songonna~maybe
songonna~as
songonna~in a way
songonna~it seems like
songonon~like this
songonon~like this
songti~magic
sono~messed up
sono~bother
sonom~yearn for
sonom~miss you much
sonomhon~yearn for
sonsang~fade
sonti~well saved
sonti~well maintained
sopa~sepah
sopadohot~exclusive
sopadohot~without
sopadohot~not included
sopar~many descendants
sopar~fertile
sopasopa~dregs
sopasopa~cake
sopasopa~waste
sopasopa~sepah
sopi~wine
sopi~wine
sopisik~not less
sopisik~confidential
sopo~hut
sopo~barn
sopo~cottage
sopo~House
sopola~without
soposopo~hut
soposopo~small hut
soposopo~huts
soposopo~slum
sopsam~fall
sopsam~fell down
sopsam~collapsed
sopsam~fell
sopu~sap
sopu~old
sor~cor
sor~nice
sor~delicious
sor~almost
sorang~stay
sorang~born
sorang~down
sorang~time of birth
sorat~burden
sorat~heavy load
sorat~tired
sorat~weak
sorat~full
sorat~fully loaded
sorat~loaded
sorbop~sudden
sordak~crossbar
sordak~doorstop
sordam~serdam
sordam~flute
sordit~suitable side dishes
sordit~nice
sorga~heaven
sorgang~snapped
sorha~spinning wheel
sorha~rest
sorha~wheel
sori~suffering
sori~trouble
sori~fate
sori~destiny
sori~profit
soridadu~military
soridadu~soldier
soridadu~soldier
soridadu~soldier
soridalu~soldier
sorigala~wolf
sorin~change
soring~change
sormin~mirror
sormin~glass
sorna~giving
sorngot~sudden
sorngot~suddenly
sornop~splash
sornop~dip
sornop~plunging
sornop~proceed
sornop~sink
soro~rongrong
soro~ambush
soro~pounced
soron~take care
sorong~push
soroni~take care
sorop~perch
sorop~penetrated
sorop~sting
sorta~pious
sorta~sweet
sorta~friendly
sorta~polite
sorur~suitable
sorur~in accordance
sosa~wipe
sosa~faded
sosa~gloomy
sosak~insisted
sosak~stuffy
sosak~congested
sosar~base
sosar~stall
sosar~pedestal
soso~recommendation
soso~advice
soso~advice
sosoi~insisted
sosop~fulfilled
sosop~added
sosop~buried
sosop~closed
sosor~settlement
sosor~village expansion
sosor~settlement
sosot~congested
sosot~meeting
sot~hindered
soto~soto
suak~broken
suakhon~break it
sual~debate
suan~sprinkle
suan~plant
suang~draw
suang~break even
suang~return
suang~go home
suang~recover
suang~series
suansuanan~defecate
suansuanan~suitable for planting
suansuanan~flora
suansuanan~vegetable
suansuanan~plants
suansuanan~plant
suansuanan~plants
suansuanan~plant
suansuanon~plant
suara~voice
suarami~your voice
suarsair~untidy
suarsair~chaotic
suasa~atmosphere ring
suasa~silver
suba~speechless
suba~try
suba~test
subama~try
subang~forbidden
subang~forbidden to mention
subang~haram
subang~abstinence
subang~taboo
subang~taboo
subang~forbidden
subang~should not
subut~take heart
subut~persuade
subut~order
suda~end
suda~wretched
suda~finished
suda~finished eating
suda~destroyed
suda~blank
suda~disappeared
suda~sold out
suda~disappear
suda~destroyed
suda~extinct
suda~disappeared
suda~disappeared
suda~nothing left
sudahon~spend it
sude~all
sude~all over
sude~all over
sude~all
sude!~all
sude!!~all
sude!!!~all
sude!!!!~all
sude?~all
sude?!~all
sude??~all
sude???~all
sude????~all
sudee~all
sudee?~all
sudeee~all
sudeee?~all
sudeeee~all
sudeeeee~all
sudehna~everything
sudena~entirely
sudena~everything
sudena!~everything
sudena?~everything
sudenaa~everything
sudenah~everything
sudenya~everything
sudesa~everything
sudol~feud
sudolsudol~resentment
sudolsudol~revenge
sudung~special
sudung~special
sudung~request
sudung~ask
sudung~submit
suga~thorns
suga~thistles
sugal~arouse anger
sugal~annoying
sugam~irritated
sugam~restless
sugam~offended
sugari~if
sugari~if only
sugari~even
sugari~if something
sugari~if
sugari~also if
sugari~if
sugari~if
sugari~if
sugarima~if only
sugarima~if so
sugarima~if only
sugarima~if only
sugut~hide
sugut~cornered
suhar~come back
suhar~latitude
suhar~breech
suhat~count
suhat~taro
suhat~a kind of plant
suhat~like it
suhat~measure
suhat~Taro
suhat~taro
suhat~measuring
suhatsuhat~scale
suhatsuhat~size
suhi~exiled
suhi~reserved
suhi~another part
suhi~facet
suhi~elbow
suhi~corner
suhi~isolated
suhi~separately
suhisuhi~corner
suhisuhi~rectangle
suhisuhi~corner
suhisuhi~facets
suhisuhi~elbows
suhisuhi~corner
suhisuhi~corners
suhu~group
suhu~each
suhu~expert
suhu~all
suhu~everything
suhu~ethnic group
suhul~handle
suhul~earthquake
suhung~bent
suhung~bow
suing~boxing
suing~punch
sukkur~shaving
sukkur~found out
sukkur~cut
suksi~wash
suksuk~congested
suksuk~full
sukun~How
sukun~ask
sukunsukun~question
sulak~reply
sulak~turn around
sulandak~ferret
sulang~choke
sulang~choke
sulang~bribe
sulean~lucky
sulean~full
sulhut~turn on
sulik~kidnap
sulim~flute
sulim~flute
suling~flute
suling~flute
sulingkit~investigate
sulingkit~investigate
sulingkit~thorough
sullom~reluctant
sulon~hampered
sulon~stuck
sulu~torch
sulu~torch
sulusulu~torch
sulusulu~instructor
sulusulu~instruction
sulusulu~torch
suma~only
suma~the second day
suman~worthy
suman~resemble
suman~similar
suman~exactly
suman~similar
sumangkapi~dream
sumangkapi~will
sumangkapi~determine
sumangkapi~desire something
sumangkapi~planning
sumangot~spirits
sumansumanan~description
sumansumanan~similarity
sumansumanan~statue
sumansumanan~imitation
sumar~excessive
sumar~miss
sumar~Extraordinary
sumar~overflowing
sumarihon~caring
sumarihon~care
sumaringgok~cry
sumaringgok~groan
sumaringgok~everyone wailed
sumaringgok~roaring
sumbaiang~prayer
sumbang~odd
sumbang~odd
sumbang~sawer
sumbang~discordant
sumbangan~saweran
sumbangan~donation
sumindak~run
sumindar~glow
sumindar~emit light
sumindar~illuminate
sumisi~disbanded
sumisi~dodge
sumisi~keep far
sumisi~avoided
sumisi~left out
sumolhot~closer
sumolsol~regret
sumondangi~illuminate something
sumondangi~illuminate
sumpa~promise
sumpa~oath
sumpat~reluctant
sumpat~disinclined
sumpat~Don't want to
sumuang~break even
sumuang~return
sumuang~return capital
sumuang~once again
sumubanghon~abstain
sumubanghon~forbid
sumubanghon~mature
sumubanghon~scold
sumundur~talk about
sumundur~colonize
sumunguthon~preach
sumunguthon~discuss
sumunguthon~tell
sumurung~different
sumurung~more
sumurung~better
sumurung~more
sumurung~more special
sumurung~special
sumurung~Specific
sumurung~looks different
sumurung~especially
sumurung~superior
sun~finished
sun~blank
sun~Extraordinary
sun~finished
sun~Ready
sun~Really
sundar~turn around
sundar~return
sundar~back off
sundar~recede
sundat~cancelled
sundat~unable to do so
sundat~fail
sundat~kensel
sundat~lose heart
sundat~cancel
sundat~cancel
sundati~cancel
sundati~cancel
sundati~prevent
sundati~stand
sunde~origin
sunde~start
sundol~feud
sundung~end
sundung~tend
sundung~inclined
sundung~crooked
sundung~stoned
sundur~talk about it
sundur~explore
sundur~Possible
sundut~force
sundut~couplet
sundut~generation
sundut~House
sundut~sunk
sundut~derivative
sungarhon~beat it
sungarhon~hit
sunge~river
sunggu~crowds come
sunggu~gather
sunggul~get up
sunggul~said
sunggul~aware
sunggul~remembered
sungguli~wake up
sungguli~wake
sungguli~remind
sungguli~realize
sungka~clumsy
sungka~try
sungka~disinclined
sungka~reluctant
sungkalit~heavy
sungkalit~chicken lice
sungkalit~hard
sungkalit~difficult
sungkana~clumsy
sungkap~search
sungkap~touch
sungkap~rooh
sungkar~against
sungkar~hard
sungkar~difficult
sungkil~brave
sungkil~chew tobacco
sungkil~mighty
sungkil~too brave
sungkot~until
sungkot~involved
sungkot~too late
sungkot~hit
sungkot~hooked
sungkot~stuck
sungkot~hindered
sungkot~stuck
sungkot~touched on
sungku~ethnic group
sungkun~How
sungkun~ask
sungkun~scold
sungkunhon~ask
sungkuni~ask
sungkunsungkun~wonder
sungkunsungkun~worried
sungkunsungkun~question
sungkunsungkun~question
sungkunsungkun~Afraid
sungkup~Enough
sungsang~intermarriage
sungsang~complicated
sungsang~breech
sungsang~backwards
sungsang~switched
sungsang~reverse order
sungutan~news
sungutan~story
sungutan~news
sungutan~conversation
suni~veiled
suni~hidden
sunisunian~exemplary
sunisunian~worthy of emulation
sunisunian~famous
sunisunian~famous
sunma~get ready
suntut~Extraordinary
suntut~very
suping~smile
suping~faint smile
supingma~smile
supingna~his smile
sura~if
sura~shadow
sura~guess
sura~if
sura~thought
sura~if
sura~guess
surabaia~city of Surabaya
surabaia~Surabaya
surae~stubborn
surae~drunk
surae~debate
surae~dispute
surae~quarrel
surak~cheered
surak~shout
surakan~scream
surangkir~debate
surangkir~dispute
surangkir~dispute
surasura~shadow
surasura~shadow
surasura~imagine
surasura~estimation
surasura~estimate
surasura~prejudice
surasura~guess
surasura~guess
surasuraon~perhaps
surasuraon~Possible
surathon~register
surathon~write it down
surathu~letter
surbot~sour
surbu~burn
surgo~hereafter
surgo~afterlife
surgo~breed
surgo~heaven
suri~comb
surintik~dark
surintik~equivocal
surirang~news
surirang~joyful news
surirang~information
surirang~forecast
surpu~quick
surpu~premature
surpu~Without thinking
surpu~haste
surpu~rushed
surpung~mired
surpung~fell down
sursar~random
sursar~nuisance
sursar~berai
sursar~untidy
sursar~disbanded
sursar~dispersed
sursar~divorced
sursar~scattered
sursar~chaotic
sursar~chaotic
sursar~frantic
sursar~chaotic
sursar~disheveled
sursar~latitude
sursar~scrambled
sursar~ravaged
sursar~complicated
sursar~complicated
sursar~chaotic
sursari~random
sursari~disband
sursari~mess it up
sursari~disheveled
sursur~landslide
sursuran~competent
sursuran~smart
surta~silk
suru~tell me
suru~sent
surung~special
surung~excess
surung~priority
surung~like to
surung~superior
surung~main
surut~back off
surut~recede
surut~retreat
susa~upset
susa~object
susa~sucks
susa~complicated
susa~difficult
susa~difficult
susa~not good
susa~not delicious
susai~difficult
susu~breasts
susu~breast
susu~milk
susu~woman's milk
susu~tits
susuban~pot
susuban~cauldron
susuda~finished
susun~arrange
susur~nice
susut~suck
susut~copulation
susut~intercourse
ta~We
taba~slash
taban~mastered
taban~sekap
taban~captive
tabanan~loot
tabanan~booty
tabanan~prisoner
tabanan~prisoner
tabantabanan~prisoner
tabe~respect
tabe~regards
tabe~Happy
tabi~regards
tabo~nice
tabo~delicious
tabo~enjoyment
tabo~fluffier
tabo~delicious
taboan~preferably
tabonai~very delicious
tabonai~it's delicious
tabonai~that's delicious
tabotabo~delicious
tabotabo~salary
tabotabo~fat
tabun~congested
tabun~long
tabutabu~content
tabutabu~pumpkin
tabutabu~tube
tada~disobedient
tada~oppose
tada~football
tada~lunge
tading~settled
tading~left
tading~stay
tadok~say
tae~slow
tagam~earth
tagam~please
tagam~waiting
tagam~looking forward
tagam~hope
tagam~Wait
tagaman~hope
tagamon~perhaps
tagamon~hope
tagamon~Possible
tagan~before
tagan~currently
tagan~cigarette case
tagan~during
tagan~temporary
tagan~when
tagan~tobacco place
taganan~better
taganan~passable
taganan~although
tagas~desire
tagas~dream
tagas~lust
tagas~appetite
tagasmu~your desire
tagasmu~your lust
tagasmu~your taste
tagasna~his desire
tagasna~his lust
tagasna~his taste
tagelleng~little
tagelleng~small
tagi~opium
tagi~Like
tagi~bill
tagil~Slash
tagir~remainder
tagonan~better
tagonan~prefer
tagonan~although
taguk~breasts
taguk~breast
taguk~milk
taguk~woman's milk
taha~split
taha~cut
tahan~feel at home
tahan~stand
tahe~right
tahe~right
tahe~better
tahe~more
tahe~of course
tahe~Actually
tahe~yes
tahebagak~beautiful
tahi~wish
tahi~ambition
tahi~initiative
tahi~decision
tahi~assembly decision
tahi~Meaning
tahi~interest
tahi~intention
tahi~strong intention
tahi~intend
tahi~determination
tahi~plan
tahi~plan
tahi~determination
tahi~objective
tahihon~plan
tahim~You mean
tahim~your intentions
tahim~your plan
tahimu~You mean
tahimu~your intentions
tahimu~your plan
tahina~It means
tahina~his intention
tahina~the plan
tahis~reduce
tahis~decline
taho~Good
taho~okay
taho~advanced
taho~be
taho~reasonable
taho~currently
taho~I'm grateful
tahoma~it is good
tahoma~not bad
tahoma~I'm grateful
tahopan~crowd
tahu~dip
tahu~dipper
tahu~smallpox
tahu~pour
tahuluk~skullcap
tahuluk~cap
tahuluk~skull cap
tahuluk~hat
tahut~Afraid
tahutahu~smallpox
tahutahu~measles
tahutahu~dipper
tahutahu~tit-for-tat
tahutahu~bucket
tahuton~Afraid
taili~lyrics
taili~look
taili~please
tailihon~watch
tailihon~lyrics
tailihon~take note
tailihon~please
tais~Far
tais~wide
tais~elongated
tajom~sharp
tajomna~sharp
tak~beat
tak~tone
tak~tone sign
taktak~chopped
taktak~climb
tala~dam
tala~pool
talagoit~small thing
talagoit~a little
talagoit~A little
talak~open
talak~wide-eyed
talak~wide open
talak~not walled
talaktalak~open
talam~tray
talam~tray
talam~tray
talam~coaster
talam~oval face
talaoas~roomy
talaoas~wide
talaoas~loose
talapak~palm
talas~plain
talas~openly
talas~open
talbang~hit
tale~Also
talha~stairs
talha~split
talha~notch
talhus~free
tali~thread
tali~tie
tali~strings
tali~rope
talipon~telephone
taliponmu~your phone
tallik~slash
tallik~beheaded
tallik~cut
tallo~a long time ago
tallo~seldom
tallong~long
tallong~late
tallus~dislodged
tallus~timeless
tallus~release
tallus~free yourself
tallus~regardless
talmak~flat
talmak~dent
talmak~flat
talpak~end
talpak~limit
talpak~clear
talpak~the end
talpak~end
talpas~managed to leak
talpas~managed to cross
talpas~translucent
talpe~easy to achieve
talpe~available
talu~lost
talu~cluck
talu~submissive
talungkup~face down
talungkup~face down
talungkup~closed
talungkup~cover it
talup~should
talup~should
talup~reasonable
tama~Good
tama~respect
tama~worthy
tama~proper
tama~proper
tama~reasonable
tamba~double
tamba~increasingly
tamba~Tamba clan
tamba~the more
tamba~plus
tambak~grave
tambak~grave
tambang~wide
tambang~transverse
tambar~anti
tambar~drug
tambar~antidote
tambar~bidder
tambar~bid
tambarmu~your medicine
tambat~tie
tambat~mooring
tambe~hood
tambing~patil
tambing~horn
tambok~weir
tambok~fortress
tambok~pool
tambok~fish pond
tambokan~dam
tambokan~reservoir
tambon~anus
tambon~bitter
tambon~anus
tambon~pelvis
tambon~butt
tambon~hips
tambonna~his ass
tambor~pile
tambor~loose
tambor~fat
tambor~strapping
tambu~plus
tambu~add food
tambun~Lots
tambun~big
tambun~grave hill
tambun~Tambun clan
tambun~collected
tambun~heap
tami~ask
tami~worship
tami~offerings
tamitami~present
tamitami~giving
tammat~passed
tammat~finished
tammat~finished
tampahan~finally it happened
tampahan~chance
tampahan~case
tampahan~ends of things
tampak~gather
tampak~together
tampak~present
tampak~visible
tampak~compact
tampak~wide butts
tampak~simultaneously
tampang~seed
tampang~seeds
tampang~sprouts
tampar~Parry
tampar~reject
tamparan~slap
tampe~location
tampehon~put it down
tampias~worm
tampias~Tapeworm
tampil~come on stage
tampuk~base
tampuk~stalk
tampul~cut
tampul~Slash
tampulak~ferret
tampung~jump
tampurung~shell
tampurung~cache
tampurus~pouting
tamue~visitor
tamuei~jamu
tamuei~guest
tanak~many
tanak~complete
tanak~Excellent
tanak~overflow
tanak~luxurious
tanaman~plant
tanda~proof
tanda~characteristic
tanda~know
tanda~brand
tanda~appear
tanda~stake
tanda~symbol
tanda~looks
tanda~sign
tandak~clear
tandak~kick
tandak~lunge
tandana~the proof
tandana~benchmark
tandana~the sign
tandang~ampel
tandang~visit
tandangi~visit
tandap~clear
tandap~Excellent
tandap~real
tandap~Certain
tandap~firm
tandap~bright
tandaphon~make sure
tandaphon~affirm
tandi~different
tandi~typical
tandi~other
tandi~striking
tandi~stand out
tandi~Specific
tandi~looks different
tandiang~fern
tanding~dodgy
tanditandi~striking
tandos~speak steadily
tandos~attached
tanduk~horn
tang~mature
tang~dirty
tang~strong
tang~firm
tang~capable
tang~ripe
tang~perfect
tang~pliers
tanga~bastard
tanga~bedbug
tanga~bedbug
tangan~hand
tanganhi~my hand
tanganhon~my hand
tanganhu~my hand
tangani~tackle
tangani~take care of it
tangas~mature
tangas~dirty
tangas~spinster
tangga~rice field plots
tangga~ladder
tanggak~be respectful
tanggak~disinclined
tanggal~dislodged
tanggal~free
tanggal~untied
tanggal~date
tanggal~open
tanggal~erased
tanggalhon~take it off
tanggalhon~let go
tanggatangga~ladder
tanggiling~pangolin
tangging~tight
tangging~strict
tangging~stretch
tangging~range
tangging~tense
tanggir~tight
tanggir~strict
tanggo~chopped
tanggo~strong
tanggo~clay
tanggo~cut
tanggo~solid
tanggo~firm
tanggule~honey
tanggurung~back
tanggurunghi~my back
tanggurunghu~my back
tanggurungna~his shoulders
tanggurungna~his back
tangi~hear
tangi~sensitive
tangi~take a look
tangi~responsive
tangianghi~my pray
tangianghon~hard
tangianghu~my pray
tangiangkonma~pray
tangiangkonon~pray
tangiangmi~your prayers
tangiangmu~your prayers
tangiangna~his prayer
tangiangni~his prayer
tangihon~listen
tangihonma~listen
tanginon~listen
tangis~cry
tangis~cry
tangkang~Badung
tangkang~bandal
tangkang~wayward
tangkang~robber
tangkang~Hooligan
tangkang~damn
tangkang~dablek
tangkang~wicked
tangkang~stubborn
tangkang~drunk
tangkang~naughty
tangkas~clear
tangkas~real
tangkas~Certain
tangkas~bright
tangkasan~original
tangkasna~what we can be certain of is
tangke~ax
tangke~stalk
tangking~hanging
tangking~carry it
tangking~adrift
tangking~not completed
tangkirisap~calm
tangkirisap~A moment
tangko~hole
tangko~kidnap
tangko~steal
tangko~Samun
tangko~todong
tangkol~reluctant
tangkol~Don't want to
tangkol~not willing
tangkual~raw
tangkual~not cooked
tangkuhuk~neck
tangkuhuk~nape
tangkuju~mountain water
tangkuju~mud
tangkuluk~hat
tangkup~suitable
tangkup~get it
tangkup~agile
tangkup~just right
tangkup~achieve
tangkup~summarize
tangkup~harmonious
tangkup~Spry
tangkup~confiscate
tangkup~stand
tangkup~responsive
tangkup~catch
tangkurak~skull
tangkurak~shell
tangkurak~cranium
tangkurak~skull
tangtang~free
tani~farmer
tanjung~swim
tanjung~Cape clan
tano~world
tano~land
tano~country
tano~land
tanom~immerse
tanom~tomb
tanom~bury
tanom~your land
tanom~plant
tanom~hidden
tanoman~grave
tanoman~grave
tanoman~burial ground
tanomu~your land
tanomu~hidden
tansir~pointed
tansir~sharp
tantara~military
tantara~soldier
tao~lake
taon~suffering
taon~flavor
taon~year
taon~bait
taonhon~feel it
taoni~taste it
taoni~bait
taontaonan~snare
taontaonan~trap
taontaonan~mine
taontaonan~bait
taos~boxing
taos~punch
tapa~meditation
tapaingot~remembered
tape~tapai
tapettapet~hit
tapettapet~exactly
tapettapet~appropriate
tapis~filter
tapol~tie
tapongan~basket
tapongan~basket
tapongan~small basket
tapor~broken
taptap~wet
taptap~wash
taptap~wash
tapu~quote
tapu~pick
tar~rather
tar~approximately
tar~as if
tar~tar
tara~greedy
tarabuk~desperate
tarabuk~forced
taradop~to
taradu~overtaken
taradu~race
taradu~overtaken
tarae~felt
tarago~Tricked
taralbas~blown away
taralimos~imagine
taralit~sprain
taralit~wrong vein
taralit~entangled
taralit~sprained
tarallang~consumed
taralo~challenged
taralo~challenged
taralusi~missed
tarambat~intercepted
tarambat~hindered
tarambat~hampered
tarambat~stuck
tarampe~located
taran~when time
taran~during
taran~during
taran~when
tarande~Up to you
taraniaya~persecuted
taranju~forgiven
taranju~caressed
taranju~persuaded
taranju~forgiven
tarantuk~hit
tarantuk~hit
tarapoi~persuaded
tarapoi~entertained
tarapul~entertained
tarasangi~challenged
tarasup~threatened
tarasupi~threatened
taratara~anger
taratara~feeling
taratara~appetite
taratur~regular
tarbagi~divided
tarbahen~Can
tarbahen~could be possible
tarbahen~Possible
tarbahen~made of
tarbahen~done
tarbahir~separated
tarbahir~inseparable
tarbali~contamination
tarbali~infectious
tarbali~infected
tarbali~infected
tarbalik~backwards
tarbalik~fell
tarbalinsu~sprained
tarbalos~unanswered
tarbapbap~tormented
tarbarita~famous
tarbarita~fast
tarbarita~skyrocketed
tarbarita~popular
tarbarita~reported
tarbarita~reported
tarbarita~famous
tarbarita~famous
tarbarita~spread
tarbarita~famous
tarbege~sounds
tarbege~heard
tarbereng~appear
tarbereng~looks
tarbereng~seems clear
tarbereng~seen
tarbereng~looked up
tarbilang~counted
tarboan~lifted
tarboan~carried away
tarbola~split
tarbola~split
tarbolus~too much
tarbolus~missed
tarbolus~missed
tarbolus~flashed
tarbonggal~reported
tarbonggal~famous
tarbonggal~famous
tarbonom~sunk
tarborong~stuck
tarborot~pawned
tarborot~bound
tarborot~entangled
tarborot~entangled
tarborot~moored
tarbortik~occurred
tarbortik~heard the news
tarbuang~exiled
tarbuang~thrown away
tarbuang~ostracized
tarbuat~taken
tarbuat~affordable
tarbuha~open
tarbungka~open
tarbungka~revealed
tarbuni~hidden
tarburju~best
tardabu~fell
tardai~felt
tardai~felt
tardais~smeared
tardais~touched
tardapot~found
tardapot~caught
tardapot~found out
tardapot~there is
tardapot~caught
tardas~flat
tardas~clearly visible
tardas~spacious place
tardas~open place
tardas~open
tardas~revealed
tardas~said
tardege~stepped on
tardege~stepped on
tardempar~stranded
tardempar~lost
tarderem~fell asleep
tardida~seen
tardidi~splash baptism
tardidi~baptized
tardidi~bathed
tardimpu~collected
tardobo~got robbed
tardobo~persecuted
tardobo~tormented
tardok~said
tardokhon~call
tardokhon~said
tardokhon~spoken
tardungdung~achieved
tardungdung~achieved
tardungdung~reached
tardungdung~affordable
tardungkol~hindered
tardungkol~prevent falls
tardungkol~hampered
tardungkol~supported
tardungo~awakened
tardusdus~desperate
tardusdus~encouraged
tardusdus~motivated
tareak~have the need
tareak~overtaken
tareak~overtaken
tarelek~persuaded
tarelek~seduced
tarellem~persuaded
tarellem~seduced
taretong~counted
targadap~lying down
targadap~lying down
targadis~sold
targadis~auctioned off
targaing~depends
targaing~stuck
targalpang~fell
targalpang~fell
targampit~pinched
targantung~depends
targargar~split
targasip~trapped
targasip~trapped
targaung~depends
targelleng~smallest
targoar~famous
targogot~Embarrassed
targogot~choked
targogot~lost
targoki~fulfilled
targombar~depicted
targombar~painted
targora~called
targora~screamed
targora~the
targorak~moved
targorak~remembered
targorak~flashed
targorga~engraved
targosa~slaughtered
targosa~tormented
targotap~truncated
targotap~disconnected
targuit~touched
targunom~sunk
targunsang~shaken
tarhabar~reported
tarhabar~spread
tarhabilang~said
tarhait~related
tarhait~interested
tarhalang~stuck
tarhalang~hindered
tarhalang~delayed
tarhaling~hindered
tarhaling~hampered
tarhalomong~amazed
tarhalomong~startled
tarhalomong~stunned
tarhalomong~surprised
tarhalupahon~forgotten
tarhalupahon~forgotten
tarhandit~lifted
tarhandit~carried away
tarhap~ravenous
tarhap~greedy
tarhapian~commendable
tarhapit~clamped
tarhapit~got pinched
tarhapit~stuck
tarhapit~squashed
tarhapit~squeezed
tarhapit~pinched
tarharhar~decompose
tarhartuk~stumbled
tarhartuk~tripped
tarhartuk~touched
tarhasuhatan~counted
tarhasuhatan~measurable
tarhatahon~said
tarhatahon~spoken
tarhatotong~impressed
tarhatotong~shock
tarhatotong~gape
tarhatotong~stunned
tarhatotong~amazed
tarhatotong~stunned
tarhatotong~dazed
tarhatotong~stuck
tarhatotong~stunned
tarhatotong~stunned
tarhatotong~realized
tarhatotong~stunned
tarhiahia~covet
tarhiahia~miss you
tarhiap~tempted
tarhiap~surprised
tarhiap~fanned
tarhiap~provoked
tarhiap~affected
tarhilala~aji while you're gone
tarhilala~reasonable
tarhilala~felt
tarhimpu~collected
tarhindat~lifted
tarhinos~tired
tarhinos~fatigue
tarhinsu~locked
tarhinsu~closed
tarhipu~hurry
tarhira~like
tarhira~like
tarhira~exactly
tarhira~it seems like
tarhira~feels like
tarhira~estimated
tarhirim~disappointed
tarhohom~fall silent
tarholip~hindered
tarhona~caught
tarhormat~dear
tarhunsi~locked
tarhunsi~closed
tarhurim~hope
tarhurtik~touched
tarhurung~go to jail
tarhurung~prisoner
tarhurung~convicted
tarhurung~trapped
tarhurung~imprisoned
tarhurung~stuck
tarhurung~caught
tarias~general
tariashon~justify
tariashon~prove the case
tariashon~announce
tarida~can be seen
tarida~fact
tarida~visible
tarida~obvious
tarida~appear
tarida~stuck out
tarida~pampang
tarida~looks
tarida~seen
tarida~looked up
tarida?~seen
taridah~seen
tarihot~got tied up
tarihot~bound
tarila~embarrassing
tarila~get embarrassed
tarila~be embarrassed
tarilu~teary eyes
tarilu~cry
taringatni~he remembered
taringot~matter
taringot~remember
taringot~about
taringot~imagine
taringot~remembered
taringot~remember
taringota~remembered
taringotbna~he remembered
taringotna~he remembered
taripar~cross
taripar~across
tariup~blown
tarjabot~pinched
tarjadi~happen
tarjahaon~read it
tarjakhon~forgiven
tarjalo~collectible
tarjalo~accepted
tarjalosa~fulfilled
tarjama~had held it
tarjama~held
tarjama~touched
tarjeges~most beautiful
tarjobang~trapped
tarjollung~fell into
tarjollung~already
tarjolma~aware
tarjolma~self-aware
tarjolma~regain consciousness
tarjolung~got caught in a trap
tarjolung~trapped
tarjua~rejected
tarlaklak~peeled off
tarlaklak~peeled
tarlalap~off guard
tarlalap~abandoned
tarlalap~neglected
tarlalap~fell asleep
tarlalap~complacent
tarlalap~forgotten
tarlangge~persecuted
tarlangge~tormented
tarlangkop~closed
tarlangkup~closed
tarlaosan~too much
tarlaosan~missed
tarlaosi~forgiven
tarlele~overtaken
tarlele~expelled
tarlengket~the best
tarlengket~most beautiful
tarlibas~hit
tarliklik~peeled off
tarlilu~lost
tarlingkang~peeled off
tarlobi~excessive
tarlobi~a huge amount
tarlobi~too many
tarlobi~too
tarlobi~moreover
tarlobian~exception
tarlojong~overtaken
tarlola~disturbed
tarlola~hindered
tarlola~stopped
tarlola~stunted
tarlolap~fell asleep
tarlompo~too
tarlonap~sunk
tarlongkang~peeled off
tarlonop~sunk
tarlua~free
tarlua~regardless
tarluak~peeled off
tarluhut~collected
tarlumba~have been warned
tarlumba~overtaken
tarlumba~exceeded
tarlumba~overtaken
tarlumobi~moreover
tarlupa~forgotten
tarlupahon~neglected
tarlupahon~forgotten
tarmali~surprised
tarmaling~rejected
tarmangan~consumed
tarnata~it turns out
tarnenep~fell asleep
tarnenep~asleep
tarnok~fell asleep
tarnok~asleep
tarnono~complacent
tarnono~asleep
taroktokon~nervous
taroktokon~angry
taroktokon~suffer a heart attack
taroktokon~afraid
taroktokon~worried
tarombo~origin
tarombo~line of descent
tarombo~family tree
tarombus~blown
tarompas~blown away
tarompas~fell
tarompet~trumpet
tarondam~threatened
taroto~kinda stupid
taroto~Tricked
tarpaboa~informed
tarpaboa~said
tarpakke~used
tarpaksa~forced
tarpalang~hindered
tarpalang~hampered
tarpalang~stuck
tarpale~beaten
tarpale~hit
tarpangke~used
tarpapulik~left out
tarpapungu~collected
tarparade~served
tarparade~served
tarparade~available
tarpasak~hit
tarpasiat~granted
tarpasiat~fulfilled
tarpasiding~spared
tarpasiding~avoided
tarpasiding~inseparable
tarpasiding~left out
tarpasiding~marginalized
tarpasidinghon~separated
tarpasuksuk~fulfilled
tarpatupa~served
tarpatupa~presented
tarpatupa~make it available
tarpatupa~held
tarpature~regular
tarpature~repaired
tarpeak~located
tarpedem~nodding off
tarpedem~asleep
tarpinjil~isolated
tarpinjil~isolated
tarpinjil~separated
tarpinjil~separately
tarpisat~injured
tarpisat~squashed
tarpisat~pinched
tarpisat~stressed
tarpisat~crushed
tarpisik~fall
tarpisik~crumble
tarpodom~fall asleep
tarpodom~asleep
tarpogu~offended
tarpolin~especially
tarponsa~split
tarporot~stuck
tarpudi~backward
tarpudi~stay behind
tarpudun~intertwined
tarpuji~commendable
tarpukul~hit
tarpulikhon~separated
tarpulikhon~inseparable
tarpulos~intertwined
tarpulos~twisted
tarpungkul~hit
tarpungu~collected
tarpungu~stacked
tarpungu~not scattered
tarpunjung~isolated
tarpunjung~isolated
tarpunjung~cornered
tarpunjung~separately
tarpunjung~knocked out
tarpunjung~left out
tarpuntar~split
tarpusa~tormented
tarputik~plucked
tarputor~twisted
tarputor~bent
tarputus~truncated
tarputus~disconnected
tarrade~available
tarrahut~bound
tarrarak~spread
tarrarak~scattered
tarrarat~spread
tarrenges~fell asleep
tarrobung~fell
tarrobung~fell
tarrobung~slipped
tarrungrung~regardless
tarsabat~hindered
tarsabat~hampered
tarsamban~stumble
tarsampat~thrown away
tarsampat~blown away
tarsampat~bounced
tarsampur~mixed
tarsandiri~separately
tarsangap~dear
tarsangkot~depends
tarsangkot~stuck
tarsar~famous
tarsar~fast
tarsar~skyrocketed
tarsar~popular
tarsar~santer
tarsar~reported
tarsar~reported
tarsar~famous
tarsar~spread
tarsar~famous
tarseat~got cut
tarseat~cut
tarserak~spread
tarsesa~forgiven
tarsesa~erased
tarsiharhar~decompose
tarsilang~crucified
tarsilat~stumbled
tarsilat~touched
tarsilbak~split
tarsilbak~isolated
tarsingot~about
tarsingot~about
tarsingot~remembered
tarsingotna~he remembered
tarsinta~beloved
tarsintak~gasped
tarsipsip~fall silent
tarsir~pointed
tarsir~sharp
tarsiranghon~separated
tarsiranghon~inseparable
tarsiuk~touched
tarsolat~can enter
tarsolat~load
tarsolat~is in between
tarsolat~tucked away
tarsollop~sunk
tarsolpa~hindered
tarsomal~used to
tarsomong~found
tarsonggot~stuttering
tarsonggot~startled
tarsonggot~surprised
tarsongon~like
tarsongon~like
tarsongon~approximately
tarsongon~something like
tarsongon~like
tarsongon~example
tarsongon~as
tarsongon~like
tarsongon~in accordance
tarsongoni~thereby
tarsongoni~approximately So
tarsongonna~for example
tarsor~as it happens
tarsor~almost
tarsor~already
tarsor~surprise
tarsorang~born
tarsosak~scrambling
tarsosak~destitute
tarsosak~threatened
tarsosak~desperate
tarsosak~choked
tarsuan~embedded
tarsugut~cornered
tarsugut~hidden
tarsugut~narrowest
tarsuhar~backwards
tarsuhat~counted
tarsuhat~measurable
tarsumurung~especially
tarsundati~stuck
tarsunggul~awakened
tarsunggul~remembered
tarsunggul~remember
tarsurbu~burnt
tartading~left behind
tartading~left behind
tartahan~stuck
tartahis~reduce
tartahis~decline
tartambat~bound
tartambat~moored
tartampe~located
tartangkup~seized
tartangkup~achieved
tartangkup~caught
tartanom~sunk
tartanom~buried
tartanom~hidden
tartanom~embedded
tartaon~stuck
tartapol~bound
tartapu~plucked
tartarik~interested
tartea~lifted
tartinggal~left behind
tartinggal~left behind
tartogu~interested
tartogu~guided
tartondong~tripped
tartondong~touched
tartontu~certain
tartopar~hit
tartubu~born
tartuhor~bought
tartuktuk~stumble
tartulluk~try
tartulluk~tested
tartulluk~cut off
tartundal~backward
tartungkup~closed
tartupa~available
tartustus~desperate
tartutak~wasted
tartutung~burnt
tartutup~closed
taru~between
taru~send
taru~put
taruhon~between
taruhon~deliver
taruhon~drops
taruhon~deliver
tarujat~rejected
tarujat~rejected
taruk~cough
tarulahon~done
tarulahon~held
taruli~lucky
taruli~luck
taruli~get something
taruli~get
taruli~abundant fortune
taruli~prettiest
tarullus~blown
tarullus~blown
tarultong~blown
tarunduk~nodded
tarunduk~bowed
tarungguan~crowd
tarungkap~open
tarungkap~exposed
tarunjom~fell
tarunjom~fell
tarup~roof
tarus~breasts
tarus~breast
tarus~milk
tarus~tits
tarusung~lifted
tarusung~transported
tarusung~carried away
tarusung~carried
tarutama~especially
tarutaru~humus
tarutaru~compost
tarutaru~manure
tarutung~durian
tarutung~durian
tarutung~Tarutung city
tasak~malignant
tasak~strong
tasak~finished
tasak~ready to do
tastas~demolish
tastas~pioneer
tastas~translucent
tata~broke
tata~immature
tata~mengkal
tata~raw
tata~papa
tata~laughter
tatahu~dipper
tatap~Look
tatap~look
tatap~stare
tatap~look
tatapan~view
tatapan~stare
tataring~kitchen
tataring~fireplace
tataring~cooking stove
tau~suitable
tau~proper
tau~capable
tau~harmonious
tau~in accordance
taut~regret
te~dirt
te~shit
tea~lift
tea~weigh
teal~haughty
teal~biased
teal~crooked
teal~wobbly
teal~proud
teal~lame
team~believe
team~Certain
teba~remainder
teda~clear
tedak~clear
tedak~bright
tedak~open
tedek~flat
tedek~please
tedek~open
tehe~emish
tehe~ask for
tektek~fall
tektek~drops
tektuk~chaotic
telem~be kind
telem~sweet
telem~friendly
telem~Be patient
teleng~tilted down
teleng~crooked
teleng~wobbly
telmek~flat
telmek~flat
telpang~limping
telpang~lame
tembak~target
tembak~target
tembak~shoot
tembok~wall
teme~furious
teme~angry
tempo~holiday
tempo~holiday
tena~he said
tenga~haughty
tenga~showy
tenga~stupid
tenga~majestic
tenga~proud
tenga~likes to demonstrate
tenggeng~resistor
tenggeng~stand
tengger~aim
teni~he said
tenju~antem
tenju~duel
tenju~fist
tenju~boxing
tenju~punch
ter~asphalt
ter~imitate sounds
ter~tar
terge~flavor
terge~feel it
tergehon~feel it
terhatahon~said
teringot~remembered
termin~stage
terpakke~used
terter~cash
terter~contani
terter~paid off
terter~pay off
terter~cash
teuk~despicable
teuk~low
tia~torn
tia~split
tiala~contradictory
tiala~object
tiala~reject
tiala~blame
tiang~beam
tiang~pillar
tiang~pole
tiar~clear
tiar~bright
tias~Embarrassed
tias~Underestimate
tias~do not like
tiasi~ignore
tibal~located
tibaltibal~offerings
tibas~character
tibas~temperament
tibas~characteristic
tibas~habit
tibas~character
tibu~fast
tibu~early
tibu~in time
tibu~early in the morning
tibu~quick
tibuna~arrived
tida~explain
tida~show
tidas~died suddenly
tidas~died suddenly
tidas~died
tidos~oppressive
tigatiga~merchandise
tigatiga~sales
tigatiga~commerce
tigor~fair
tigor~Correct
tigor~right
tigor~Honest
tigor~plate
tigor~straight
tigor~proper
tigor~proper
tigor~sincere
tiha~suspect
tiha~critics
tiha~thought
tiha~doubt
tiha~accused
tihas~shame
tihas~used
tihas~disabled
tihas~characteristic
tihus~enemy
tijabu~to the house
tijur~saliva
tijur~saliva
tijur~slobber
tijur~saliva
tijur~saliva
tijuri~spit
tijurna~the drool
tijurna~he drools
tijurna~he spat
tiktik~knock
tilam~mattress
tilhas~reproach
tilhas~in front of
tilik~take a peek
tilik~look
tilil~exiled
tilli~Given attention to
tilli~ignore it
tilli~lyrics
tilpok~broken
tiltal~joy
timak~done
timak~Okay
timak~as appropriate
timba~dipper
timba~bucket
timbaho~tobacco
timbang~weigh
timbang~measuring
timbangan~balance sheet
timbangan~scales
timbil~most
timbo~tall
timbo~tall
timbona~the height
timbul~great
timbul~successful
timbul~sublime
timbul~proceed
timbul~famous
timbul~grow
timbul~rising
timbul~glorious
timbul~appear
timbung~jump
timbung~jump
timbung~plunge
timpal~measles
timpal~throw
timpal~thrown away
timpal~thrown
timpas~finished
timpas~blank
tinailihon~glanced at
tinambor~grave
tinaringotan~reminded
tinaringotan~called
tinaringotan~alluded to
tinaru~egg
tinda~faint
tindang~stand
tindi~overwrite
tindi~overlap
tindi~stack
tinggal~stay
tinggang~fall
tinggang~fell down
tinggil~loud
tinggil~sensitive
tinggil~sharp hearing
tinggil~responsive
tingki~time
tingki~when
tingki~period
tingki~moment
tingki~season
tingki~moment
tingki~trumpet
tingki~since
tingki~during
tingki~since
tingki~situation
tingki~grace
tingki~time
tingki~era
tingkina~his death
tingkina~the time
tingkina~the time
tingkion~now
tingkir~tomorrow
tingkir~search
tingkir~take a peek
tingkir~visit
tingkir~visit
tingkir~visit
tingkir~layat
tingkir~Look
tingkir~stare
tingkir~look
tingko~round
tingko~round
tingkos~fair
tingkos~original
tingkos~Good
tingkos~Correct
tingkos~straight line
tingkos~right
tingkos~formal
tingkos~worthy
tingkos~logical
tingkos~straight
tingkos~quality
tingkos~Certain
tingkos~sporty
tingkos~perpendicular
tingkos~appropriate
tingkosi~do it right
tingting~news
tingting~notice
tingting~announcement
tingting~announcement
tingting~congregational news
tiningki~certain
tiningki~set
tinodo~chosen
tinodo~appointed
tinodo~I choose
tinodo~I point
tinompa~creation
tinuntung~lucky
tinutungan~has been burned
tinutungan~has been baked
tio~clear
tio~clear
tiop~handheld
tiop~congregate
tiop~hold
tiopan~handle
tiopi~hold on
tiopi~stand
tiopon~handle
tipa~hit
tipa~overwrite
tipak~done
tipak~Ready
tipak~right there
tipis~fine
tipis~thin
tiptip~found out
tiptip~cut
tiptip~cut
tipu~lie
tipu~a kind of poison
tipu~hoax
tipul~broken
tipul~separated
tipulhon~break it
tirangkap~trap
tiro~watch out
tiro~advice
tiro~advice
tiro~write
tiroi~watch
tiroi~explain
tiroi~advise
tiru~example
tiru~trace
tiru~similar
tiru~cheat
tiru~copy
tiruan~example
tiruanna~for example
tiruna~for example
titel~title
titel~title
titi~titi
titi~titi
titus~titus
tiur~bright
tiur~bright
tiur~roar
tiur~clear
tiur~nur
tiur~bright
tiurma~be clear
toba~Toba
tobal~heavy
tobal~thick
tobang~aged
tobang~mature
tobang~dirty
tobang~old
tobat~amber
tobat~pond
tobat~pool
tobat~deep
tobing~cliff
tobok~sincere
tobok~Honest
tobok~innocent
tobok~polite
tobok~sincere
tobu~sugarcane
todas~Beautiful
toding~settled
toding~stay
todo~brothers
todo~choose
todo~determine
todo~point
todoan~choice
toe~Come on
toe~let
toga~strength
toga~power
toga~gathering
togam~authoritative
togap~stocky
togap~sturdy
togap~strong
togap~upright
togap~strapping
togar~entertain
togar~tough
togar~firm
togihon~invite
togos~strong
togos~Handsome
togos~stocky
togos~strong
togos~holy
togos~upright
togu~invite
togu~guide
togu~build
togu~tightly
togu~sturdy
togu~strong
togu~papa
togu~pull
togu~firm
togu~guide
togutogu~support
togutogu~build
togutogu~bingbing
togutogu~confirmed
togutogu~strengthen
togutogu~guide
tohang~threshold
tohap~part
tohap~right
tohap~charisma
tohap~quota
tohap~reward
tohap~acquisition
tohap~portion
toho~original
toho~Correct
toho~right
toho~raise your head
toho~Certain
toho~appropriate
toho!!!!~Correct
tohodo~that's right
tohom~Really
tohom~tough
tohom~Of course
tohoma~that's right
tohoma~that's right
tohona~the original
tohonan~position
tohonan~dignity
tohonan~rank
tohonanna~his position
tohonanna~his rank
tohuk~frog
tohuk~frog
tois~underestimate
tois~haughty
tois~disobedient
tois~savage
tois~careless
tois~God damn it
tois~big mouth
tois~naughty
tois~look at it lightly
tois~arrogant
tois~proud
tois~likes to fight
tojak~frog
tojo~guess
tojo~consider
tojom~Keep going
tojuk~punch
tok~Ah
tok~croaking sound
tok~dizziness
tok~Dizzy
tok~Sick
tokke~agent
tokke~bookie
tokke~boss
tokke~debtor
tokke~skipper
tokkin~A moment
toktok~part
toktok~dues
toktok~knock
toktok~obligation
toktok~piece
tolai~divorce
tolai~separate
tolak~divorce
tolak~separate
tolap~powerful
tolap~brave
tolap~Can
tolap~can
tolap~can
tolap~capable
tolap~capable
tolap~stand
tolbak~broken-down
tolbak~landslide
tolbak~collapsed
tole~Come on
tole~suck
tole~let
tole~intercourse
tolema~come on
tolema~come on
tolhang~tired
tolhang~tired
tolhas~until
tolhas~arrive
tollu~jump
tollu~jump
tolmok~big
tolmok~fat
tolmok~fat
tolo~had time
tolon~esophagus
tolon~oath
tolon~swallow
tolon~throat
tolonan~esophagus
tolonan~throat
tolong~it's dark
tolong~Help
tolop~agree
tolopan~agreement
tolopi~help
tolopi~support
tolopi~agree
tolopi~agree
tolor~egg
tolping~slope
tolping~steep edge
tolping~cliff
tolpingtolping~fraction
tolpingtolping~flakes
tolpus~speak out loud
tolpus~goal
tolpus~wall
tolpus~translucent
tolpus~crossed
toltol~rigid
toltol~seizure
toltol~straight
toltol~stretch
toltol~range
tolu~3
tolu~three
tolur~egg
toman~pious
toman~graceful
toman~kalam
toman~proper
toman~humble
toman~pious
toman~polite
toman~holy
tombak~forest
tombak~javelin
tombak~bushes
tombal~only
tombal~only
tombis~pepet
tombis~nudge
tombis~elbow
tombis~cape
tombis~end of the land
tombol~fat
tombol~strong
tombom~sleepy
tombom~bump
tombom~hit
tombom~break
tombom~crash
tombom~crash
tombos~big
tombos~angry
tombos~get angry
tombuk~leaking
tombuk~hole
tombuk~hole
tombuk~wall
tombuk~translucent
tombur~roast
tombus~succeed
tombus~broken-down
tombus~satisfied
tombus~translucent
tombus~achieved
tomok~big
tomos~muscular
tomos~sturdy
tomos~strong
tomos~firm
tompa~form
tompa~create
tompa~appearance
tompa~appearance
tompa~wrought
tompa~face
tompaan~creation
tompahu~my appearance
tompamu~your appearance
tompana~thereby
tompana~apparently
tompas~fall
tompas~collapse
tompas~breakthrough
tompu~suddenly
tompu~spontaneous
tompu~suddenly
tompuk~o'clock
tompuk~pat
tompul~peace
tompur~bump
tompur~crash
tomputompu~sudden
tomputompu~suddenly
tomputompu~suddenly
tomu~welcome
tomu~next
tomu~meeting
tomu~invitation
tona~mandate
tona~recommendation
tona~order
tona~message
tonahu~my message
tonan~disaster
tonan~wretched
tonang~calm
tondan~unable to do so
tondan~hampered
tondap~clear
tondi~spirits
tondi~soul
tondi~spirit
tondi~Rohul
tondi~soul
tondihi~my soul
tondihi~my spirit
tondihu~my soul
tondihu~my spirit
tondim~your soul
tondim~your spirit
tondimi~your soul
tondimi~your spirit
tondimu~your soul
tondimu~your spirit
tondina~his spirit
tondina~his soul
tondina~his spirit
tondiu~my soul
tondolan~base
tondolan~seabed
tondolan~floor
tondong~family
tondong~helat
tondong~family
tondong~close family
tondong~relatives
tondong~best friend
tondong~relatives
tondong~relatives
tondong~nudge
tondong~touch
tondong~cousin
tondong~visitor
tondonghu~my family
tondonghu~my relatives
tondongmu~your family
tondongmu~your relatives
tondongna~his family
tondongna~his relatives
tong~eternal
tong~drum
tong~Also
tong~Still
tong~However
tong~always
tong~Keep going
tong~still
tonga~center
tonga~middle
tongam~graceful
tongam~authoritative
tongam~big
tongam~Handsome
tongam~charisma
tongam~loud
tongam~majestic
tongam~impressive
tongam~glorious
tongam~handsome
tongam~dear
tongani~the middle
tongatonga~axis
tongatonga~middle
tongdo~Are you still
tongdo~still
tongdo~anyway
tonggal~big
tonggal~elite
tonggal~rich
tonggal~important
tonggal~leading
tonggi~sweet
tonggina~how sweet
tonggo~prayer
tonggo~meditation
tonggo~call
tonggo~hearing
tonggo~invite
tonggohu~my pray
tonggol~banner
tonggol~stump
tonggomu~your prayers
tonggona~his prayer
tonggong~rigid
tonggong~tense
tonggor~watch out
tonggor~Look
tonggor~look
tonggor~sharp eyesight
tonggor~bright
tonggor~watch
tonggor~write
tongka~Don't
tongka~abstinence
tongka~darling
tongka~taboo
tongkar~wayward
tongkar~argued
tongkar~depraved
tongkar~irritated
tongkar~fight
tongkar~naughty
tongkar~likes to argue
tongkar~rancid
tongkar~quarrel
tongke~want to
tongkin~just a moment
tongkin~fast
tongkin~calm
tongkin~quick
tongkinon~earlier
tongko~hoax
tongkok~hammer
tongkok~hammer
tongkok~tokok
tongon~direction
tongon~Correct
tongon~aim
tongon~suitable
tongon~exactly
tongon~appropriate
tongor~containing
tongor~congested
tongos~Send
tongos~entrust
tongosan~delivery
tongosan~deposit
tongosan~barrel
tongoshon~send
tongtang~combat
tongtong~eternal
tongtong~eternal
tongtong~always
tongtong~always
tongtong~continously
tongtong~still
tonjan~collapsed
tonjan~sulk
tontang~debate
tontang~about
tontu~done
tontu~Certain
tontu~Ready
tontu~Of course
tontu~still
tontuhon~determine
tonu~wet
tonu~wash
tonu~watery
tonun~knit
tonun~weaving
tonunan~textile
tonunan~weave
top~together
top~unite
top~gather
topa~form
topa~wrought
topak~born
topak~pat
topana~the shape
topana~form
topar~beat it
topar~fist
topar~o'clock
topar~slap
topar~boxing
topar~punch
topar~mash
topari~slap
topari~tonjoki
topartopar~fraction
topas~bamboo
topas~big
topas~right
topet~appropriate
topettopet~Correct
topettopet~right
topettopet~as it happens
topettopet~exactly
topettopet~appropriate
topi~edge
topi~edge
topi~edge
topik~chunk
topik~fraction
topik~flakes
topikhon~pick it up
topikhon~break it
topot~can
topot~see you
topot~meet
topot~visit
topot~visit
topot~apply
topot~betel nut
topot~meeting
topot~meet
topot~invitation
topoti~meet
topung~flour
topung~wheat
tor~mountain
tor~approximately
tor~mountains
tor~determine
toradan~line
toradan~row
torang~bright
torang~bright
torang~clear
torang~nur
torang~real
torang~bright
torang~said
torang!!~bright
torang?~bright
torangma~be clear
toras~rice straw
toras~mature
toras~straw
toras~dirty
toras~older
toras~ripe
torban~collapse
torbang~middle aged
torbang~outrageous
torbang~missed
torbang~flashed
torbis~carefully
torbis~painstaking
tording~rule
tording~lined up
tording~regulation
tording~rules
torhis~energetic
torhis~fresh
torhis~Healthy
torjo~stab
torkan~guess
torop~Lots
torop~rousing
torop~crowded
torsa~story
torsahon~tell me
torsahon~tell a story
torsatorsa~story
torsatorsa~fairytale
torsatorsa~collection of stories
torsok~delicious
tortor~dance
tortor~dance
tortor~Tortor
toru~lower
toru~low
torui~come
torui~protest
toruk~low
torus~keep walking
torus~Again
torus~rate
torus~carry on
torus~Keep going
torushon~continue
torushon~continue
torusma~go on
torusma~keep going
torusson~continue
torusson~continue
torutoru~curse
tos~stop
tos~dead
tos~separated
tostoa~dead
tostos~separated
tostos~decide
tot~foot
tota~standard
tota~clean
tota~with the rules
tota~pure
tota~regular
tota~neat
tota~orderly
total~strong
total~still standing
total~total
totap~firm
totar~develop
totar~repair
totong~amazed
totong~mango
totong~hopeless
totop~Lots
totop~rousing
totop~crowded
totop~always
totop~often
totop~still
tu~for
tu~to
tu~to
tu~going to
tu~on
tu~The same
tu~to
tu~For
tua~blessing
tua~blessing
tua~aged
tua~luck
tua~old
tua~good luck
tuak~roomie
tuak~located
tuak~palm wine
tuan~honorable person
tuan~Sir
tuana~the blessing
tuana~old
tuani~I'm grateful
tuap~spilled
tuarang~popular
tuat~down
tuau~to me
tuau~for me
tuba~fierce
tuba~turn on
tuba~a kind of vegetable
tuba~tuba
tubi~fight
tubi~fighting
tubis~bamboo shoots
tubol~reply
tubol~feud
tuboltubol~revenge
tubu~born
tubu~grow
tubuan~give birth to
tubuan~produce
tubuan~make
tubuan~copy
tuda~deviated
tudia~Where to
tudiape~wherever
tudos~appeal
tudos~example
tudos~like
tudos~resemble
tudos~similar
tudos~exactly
tudos~The same
tudos~like
tudos~similar
tudos~worth it
tudosan~comparison
tudosan~compare
tudosan~example
tudosan~description
tudosan~like
tudosanna~comparison
tudosanna~for example
tudoshon~match
tudoshonon~match
tudoshononhon~equalize
tudosna~it seems like
tudoson~comparative material
tudoson~example
tudosonna~for example
tudostudos~comparison
tudostudos~comparison
tudu~choose
tudu~thought
tudu~accused
tudu~point
tudung~hat
tudung~hood
tudutudu~clockwise
tudutudu~instruction
tudutudu~picky
tudutudu~show
tugadis~sell
tugadis~sold
tugan~switch
tuginjang~to the top
tuginjang~to the top
tuhak~curve
tuhak~curve
tuhak~hole
tuhan~Allah
tuhan~Lord
tuhanna~his god
tuhanni~his god
tuhap~spilled
tuhaphon~spill
tuhas~suspect
tuhas~thought
tuhas~accused
tuhe~stake
tuhe~benchmark
tuhe~border
tuhe~inheritance
tuhil~chisel
tuho~limit
tuho~limitation
tuho~to you
tuhoi~limit
tuhoi~sleigh
tuhor~buy
tuhor~purchase price
tuhor~dowry
tuhor~dowry
tuhorhon~buy it
tuhorma~buy it
tuhormu~your dowry
tuhormu~your dowry
tuhorna~dowry
tuhorna~the dowry
tuhu~Serious
tuhu~truly
tuhuk~shoulder
tuhuk~carry it
tuhuk~shoulders
tuhuk~stretcher
tuhutuhu~Correct
tuhutuhu~right
tuing~boxing
tuing~punch
tuit~acting up
tuit~coquettish
tuit~girlish
tuit~likes to show off
tujabu~to the house
tuju~aim
tuju~case
tujung~veil
tujung~headgear
tujung~hood
tujung~headgear
tuk~tired
tuk~Enough
tuk~until
tukkang~mechanic
tukkang~craftsman
tukkar~change
tukkar~swap
tuktuk~sleepy
tuktuk~pounding
tuktuk~knock
tuktuk~tap
tuktuk~mash
tula~free
tula~full moon
tulak~return
tulak~reject
tulang~mother's surname
tulang~uncle
tulangna~his uncle
tulasik~arid
tulasik~Bad
tulen~original
tulen~original
tuli~stop by
tuli~stop by
tulila~flute
tulis~striped
tulis~stripes
tulishon~write it down
tullang~stab
tullang~stab
tullom~direct
tullom~straight
tullom~Keep going
tultul~gnats
tultul~fly
tultul~ruminant
tultul~mash
tuluk~measuring
tulus~taking place
tulus~round up
tulus~focus
tulus~sincere
tulus~So
tulus~fluent
tulus~smooth
tulus~willing
tulus~achieved
tulus~continue
tulus~sincere
tulushon~let it go
tulushon~smooth it
tulushon~relax
tulushon~be sincere
tulushonma~make it work
tulut~watch out
tulut~follow
tulut~write
tuluthon~watch
tuluthon~follow
tumadinghon~leave
tumagon~better
tumagon~Better
tumagon~passable
tumagon???~Better
tumahi~planned
tumanda~confess
tumanda~know
tumanda~know
tumangihon~listen
tumaon~withhold
tumba~dance
tumba~dance
tumba~Tortor
tumba~rice size
tumbuk~bogem
tumbuk~fist
tumbuk~o'clock
tumbuk~boxing
tumbuk~punch
tumbur~sprouts
tumbur~shoots
tumingka~different
tumopot~get
tumoru~notched
tumoru~the very bottom
tumoru~Lowest
tumpak~help
tumpak~help
tumpak~compensation
tumpak~support
tumpak~donation
tumpak~allowance
tumpak~zakat
tumpaki~help
tumpal~grace
tumpal~reply
tumpal~crown
tumpalmu~your gift
tumpalna~his gift
tumpol~face to face
tumpol~face to face
tumpol~in front of
tumpol~face to face
tumpol~direct
tumpol~straight across
tumpu~gather
tumpur~bankrupt
tumpur~out of business
tumpur~running out of capital
tumpur~crash
tumpur~come up short
tumpur~crash
tumtum~assemble
tumtum~arrange
tumua~oldest
tumundalhon~back
tunas~shoots
tundal~anti
tundal~behind
tundal~turn away
tundal~apostate
tundal~backwards
tundal~not interested
tunduk~familiar
tunduk~back down
tunduk~according to
tunduk~obedient
tunduk~worship
tunduk~defeated
tunduk~submit
tundun~come on
tundun~behind the knife
tundun~guide
tundun~build
tunduon~sleepy
tung~very
tung~however
tung~thereby
tung~if at all
tung~perhaps
tung~more than
tung~apparently
tung~very
tung~Really
tung~although
tungar~heartbreaking
tungar~hurtful
tunggal~male
tunggaling~fall
tunggaling~fell over
tunggaling~turn upside down
tunggaling~fell down
tunggaling~thrown away
tunggaling~rolled
tunggaling~bounced
tunggaling~spilled
tunggane~brother-in-law
tunggang~brave
tunggang~mighty
tunggang~not afraid
tungganidolihu~My husband
tunggar~driftwood
tunggar~stump
tunggom~suitable
tunggom~in accordance
tunggu~bill
tunggul~bookie
tunggul~head
tunggul~leader
tunggul~pillar
tunggul~main
tunggultunggul~bookie
tunggun~authority
tungil~arid
tungil~barren
tungkan~direction
tungkan~direction to
tungkan~to
tungkan~to
tungkar~swap
tungki~hunchback
tungki~bowed sadly
tungkis~spilled
tungkishon~spill
tungko~rendezvous
tungko~stump
tungkol~fork
tungkol~prop
tungkol~supporting wood
tungkol~toothache
tungkol~support
tungkol~pole
tungkol~support
tungkot~stick
tungkup~closed
tungtung~closing
tungtung~final
tunik~treasure
tunik~inheritance
tunjang~football
tunjang~kick
tunjang~lunge
tunjul~big at the end
tunjul~sticking out
tunjul~push
tunjul~massage
tunjung~search
tuon~come here
tupa~perhaps
tupa~done
tupa~dish
tupa~Possible
tupa~ready
tupado~available
tupik~free
tupik~chippy
tuptup~decision
tuptup~accomplice
tuptupan~decision
tupudi~to the back
tupung~are together
tupung~gather
tupung~gather
tupung~meet each other
tur~land
tur~moor
tura~stab
tura~stab
turaparon~starving
turasi~explain
ture~neat
ture~set
ture~Good
ture~done
ture~solemn
ture~worthy
ture~neat
ture~finished
ture~perfect
ture~Ready
ture~already set
ture~regular
ture~available
ture~reasonable
turgas~helping power
turgas~advice
turgas~advice
turgas~suggestion
turgas~task
turgas~effort
turgasna~his advice
turgasna~advice
turgasna~his task
turiang~fruit
turiang~paddy plate
turiturian~once upon a time
turiturian~story
turiturian~fairy tales
turiturian~fairytale
turiturian~story
turiturian~legend
turiturian~history
turiturihon~tell me
turiturihon~tell a story
turpuk~paragraph
turpuk~chapter
turpuk~part
turpuk~allotment
turpuk~nature
turpuk~gathering
turpuk~fate
turpuk~pile
turpuk~handwritten
turpuk~destiny
turpukhon~collect
turtar~rowdy
turtar~hustle and bustle
turtar~quarrel
turun~down
turut~suitable
turut~in accordance
turut~join in
tusaluhutna~all of them
tustus~insisted
tusudena~general
tusuk~stab
tusuk~stab
tutak~thrown away
tutoru~down
tutoru~down
tutu~pestle
tutu~Correct
tutu~right
tutu~grind
tutu~chirped
tutu~Certain
tutu~Serious
tutu~Really
tutu~not wrong
tutu~mash
tutu~grind
tutung~burn
tutung~roast
tutungon~burnt
tutup~dead end
tutup~perched
tutup~closed
tutur~teach
tutur~defend
tutur~family
tutur~clear
tutur~family
tutur~relatives
tutur~according to row
tutur~arrange
tutur~visitor
tutur~system
tutur~regular
tuturan~teachings
tuturan~teaching
tuturhu~my family
tuturhu~my relatives
tuturi~point
tuturi~defend
tuturi~explain
tuturmu~your family
tuturmu~your relatives
tuturna~his family
tuturna~his relatives
ua~Come on
ua~Okay
ua~let
ua~Please
ua~shout
uak~reproach
uak~in front of
uak~remove skin
uak~wow
ualu~eight
ualu~eight
uangka~wild boar
uangka~wild pig
uangka~wild boar
uap~smell
uap~puff
uap~steam
uar~Lots
uar~wasteful
uar~wasteful
uar~royal
uarar~victorious
uarar~famous
uari~pledge
uari~promise
uari~oath
uari~determination
uarna~beautiful
uarna~color
uas~thirst
uas~thirsty
uba~com
uba~overhaul
uba~change
ubat~drug
ubatmi~your medicine
ubatmu~your medicine
ube~stomach
ubor~false
ubor~Wrong
ubung~life
ubungan~connection
udalani~I do it
udan~Rain
udean~grave
udean~Liang Lahad
udean~grave
udean~burial
udean~burial ground
udo~Friend
udur~queue
udur~line
udur~along
udur~lined up
udur~together
udur~consecutive
udur~go together
udur~group
udur~simultaneously
udur~simultaneously
udur~regular
uduran~line
uduran~flock
uduran~mass
uduran~group
udurhon~line it up
udurhon~lead
udut~carry on
udut~continued
udut~Keep going
uduti~continue
ue~Ouch
ugam~hone
ugamo~religion
ugamo~trust
ugamona~his religion
ugan~humus
ugan~compost
ugan~fertilizer
ugan~fertile
uganugan~fertilizer
ugari~customs
ugari~culture
ugari~habit
ugari~culture
ugari~common
ugari~normal
ugari~regulation
ugasan~goods
ugasan~object
ugasan~treasure
ugasan~property
ugasan~possession
ugasan~owned by
ugasan~furniture
ugasanmu~your treasure
ugasanna~his property
uge~demolish
uge~pry
ugul~quarrel
uha~connect
uha~refuted
uha~challenge
uhai~contact
uhal~analysis
uhal~discuss
uhal~dig
uhal~match
uhal~copy
uhir~carve
uhiran~carving
uhom~silent
uhot~slippery
uhot~hidden
uhot~closed
uhot~dishonest
uhum~silence
uhum~law
uhum~regulation
uhum~Constitution
uhuman~punishment
uhummat~Be careful
uhummat~Be careful
uhummat~slowly
uhummat~calm
uhut~bran
uja~competent
ujar~proficiency
ujar~cleverness
ujar~art
uji~try
uji~test
ujian~trial
ujian~exam
ujian~test
ujingni~Finally
ujiujian~test
ujiujian~exam
uju~formerly
uju~only
uju~only a few
uju~time
uju~when
uju~moment
uju~just
uju~all needs
uju~during
uju~since
ujui~formerly
ujung~end
ujung~closing
ujung~end
ujungna~Finally
ujungna~finish
ujungna~the cover
ujungna~the end
ujungna?~the end
ujungni~end
ukkur~measuring
ula~work on
ula~manage
ula~Work
ula~in demand
ula~farmer
ula~take care of it
ulae~Like
ulahi~repeat
ulahon~do it
ulahon~do
ulahon~do
ulahon~held
ulahon~tackle
ulahon~try
ulahonma~do it
ulahonma~do it
ulahononhu~my job
ulahononhu~I'll do it
ulak~return
ulak~repeat
ulakhon~repeat
ulan~Budi
ulan~character
ulang~embara
ulang~repeat
ulaning~maybe
ulaning~approximately
ulaning~Actually
ulaon~half
ulaon~work
ulaon~work
ulaon~work
ulaon~party
ulaonmi~your event
ulaonmi~your job
ulaonmi~your party
ulaonmu~your event
ulaonmu~your job
ulaonmu~your party
ulaonna~the event
ulaonna~livelihood
ulaonna~his job
ulaonna~the party
ulas~repeat
ulaula~tool
ulaula~witchcraft
ulaula~work
ulaula~tools
ulaula~craftsman's tools
ulaulana~his work
uli~reliable
uli~graceful
uli~Good
uli~Good
uli~competent
uli~Beautiful
uli~suitable
uli~beautiful
uli~beautiful
uli~beautiful
uli~sweet
uli~beautiful
uli~dapper
uli~very
uli~in accordance
uli!~Beautiful
ulihu~my beauty
ulihu~I'm beautiful
uliku~my beauty
ulimu~your beautiful
ulina~beautiful
ulina~how sweet
ullom~quick
ullop~seen
ullus~exhale
ullus~blow
ulok~snake
ulos~cloth
ulos~woven fabric
ulos~sash
ulos~blanket
ulos~ulos
ulpuhan~review results
ulpuhan~forecast
ulpuhan~divination
ulpukan~fortune telling
ulpukan~forecast
ultong~blow
ultongan~blow
ulu~head
uluan~commander
uluan~guide
uluan~leader
uluan~leader
ulubalang~aiming expert
ulubalang~headmaster
ulubalang~hero
ulubalang~commander
ulubalang~pioneer
ulubalang~war leader
ulubalang~Warrior
ulubalang~soldier
uluhi~my head
uluhon~lead
uluhu~my head
ulum~your head
ulumu~your head
uluna~his head
uluni~his head
uluporang~bookie
uluporang~skipper
uluporang~head
um~more
uma~ricefield
umbagas~notched
umbagas~deeper
umbagas~deepest
umbahen~until
umbahen~so
umbahen~so
umbahen~make
umbahen~become
umbahen~occurs because
umbang~buoyant
umbang~loose
umbang~Lampung
umbege~hear
umbegesa~listen
umbol~come
umbol~visit
umbol~visit
umboto~know better
umboto~know
umbuk~try using it
umbuk~suitable
umbuk~just right
umbuk~harmonious
umburju~better
umburju~the best
umburju~noblest
umdenggan~best
umiran~healed
umma~kiss
umma~fondling
umma~kiss
umma~sun
ummaen~I made it
ummiokmiok~gentle
ummiokmiok~gentle
ummiokmiok~easy to look away
umpama~example
umpama~pantun
umpama~proverb
umpama~equality
umpama~parable
umpama~poetry
umpama~for example
umpamana~for example
umpasa~pantun
umpasa~proverb
umpasa~rhyme
umpasa~for example
umpudi~Then
umpudi~further back
umpudi~the last
umpudi~rear
umuli~better
umuli~more beautiful
umuli~best
umuli~prettiest
umur~middle aged
umur~age
umur~age
unang~in order not to
unang~that no
unang~Don't
unang~do not do it
unang~abstinence
unang?~Don't
unangg~Don't
unanggg~Don't
unanglah~don't
undang~invite
undang~try
undang~test
undang~test
undang~invite
undang~Constitution
undangundang~temptation
undo~hunchback
undo~head bowed
unduk~familiar
unduk~nod
unduk~anggut
unduk~submit
undukhon~nod
undukhon~Is not it
undungundung~hut
undungundung~camp
undungundung~cottage
undungundung~hovel
undur~retreat
une~Good
une~former track
une~done
une~right
une~suitable
une~Okay
une~proper
une~in accordance
une~reasonable
unga~Already
ungap~rotten
ungil~pray for
ungil~hard
ungil~stubborn
ungil~drunk
ungil~beech
ungkap~open
ungkap~reveal
ungkil~suffering
ungkil~struggle
ungkil~difficult
ungkit~demolish
ungkit~pry
ungkit~smashed
ungkit~overturned
ungkit~seesaw
ungkor~snoring
ungkor~dive
ungkur~measuring
ungkuran~size
ungut~babble
ungut~whined
ungut~grumble
ungutungut~babble
ungutungut~grumbled
ungutungut~complaint
ungutungut~whine
ungutungut~babble
ungutungut~nagging
ungutungut~grumbling
uniunian~like
uniunian~similarity
uniunian~pilot
uniunian~for example
unjal~shake
unjal~press
unjuk~party
unjuk~wedding party
unjun~try
unjun~exam
unjunan~trial
unjur~elongated
unjur~longitudinal
unjur~throughout
unok~the inside part
unok~empelor
unok~cork
unsat~ask for it back
unsat~move
unsat~bill
unsat~charge it back
unsok~boy
unsok~nice
unsol~stop
unte~orange
unte~lemons
unte~lime
until~strong
untu~accomplished
untu~superior
untu~the biggest one
untung~profit
untung~profit
unung~persuade
unung~apply
unungan~application
unur~suitable
unur~in accordance
upa~reply
upa~wages
upa~rewards
upa~plain flour
upa~wages
upana~his salary
upana~compensation
upana~his wages
upani~his destiny
upani~his wages
upar~very upset
upar~furious
upaupa~present
upet~wages
upet~wages
upok~broken
upokupok~fraction
upokupok~flakes
urak~shame
urak~Embarrassed
uras~wash
uras~splash
uras~purify
urat~root
urat~pulse
urat~vessels
urat~Bone leaves
urdot~rhythm
urmun~dimly lit
urmun~faint
ursa~deer
uru~scoffed
uruk~on
urung~heap
urung~stack
urup~help
urup~Help
urupi~help
urupi~galang
urupi~discordant
urupi~Help
urupima~help
urupima~please
uruporang~bookie
uruporang~skipper
uruporang~head
usa~wash
usa~clean up
usa~rub
usang~thin
usang~old
use~bulk
use~spilled
usehon~lavished
usehon~spill
uso~How
uso~ask
usop~get wet
usop~sink
usop~sunk
usop~dipped
usung~transport
usung~bring
usung~boyong
usung~mutual
usung~drive
usung~carry it
uta~vomit
utang~credit
utang~borrow
utang~debt
utara~north
utiutian~witchcraft
utiutian~mystical
utiutian~magic
utok~brain
utokmi~your brain
utokmu~your brain
utokna~his brain
utokutok~sense
utokutok~brain
utokutok~thought
utokutokmu~your brain
utokutokna~his brain
utokutokna~his mind
utus~very
utus~very
utus~sent
utus~represent
aba arga~oh expensive
aba oto~oh stupid
abak damang~oh dad
abak garar~gosh pay
abak gogot~oh it's difficult
abak lomomma~Good grief. you like it
abak pidom~what a shame
abak saguman~overall prosperity
abak sonangna~what a pleasure
abara bongkak~swollen shoulders
abara dalan~roadside
abatabat abatabat~challenges, obstacles
abur gotil~sow and reap
adang lung~exploring nature
adang tondi~explore the soul
adaran eme~rice fields
adaran hetek~lowland
adaran timbo~plateau
adat hapantunon~norms of politeness
adong babiat~there is a tiger
adong baruang~there's a bear
adong do~is there
adong do~exists
adong ma~is
adong musa~there's an incident
adong pe~as for
adongma panortor~is a dancer
ae hajolmaon~humanity
ae honas~pineapple flavor
ae panolsolion~regret
ae potir~bitter taste
aek bondar~sewage
aek buru~rushing water
aek godang~time
aek godang~river
aek igit~semen
aek lubaklubak~sewage water
aek marjogal~the water freezes
aek pasang~tide
aek sihabiaran~sacred water
aek tuak~sap water
aekna tio~the water is clear
agan bangkin~even though I'm upset
agan pe~although
agan pe~though
agan pe~though
agan pe~although
aganan paet~even though it's bitter
agia aha~whatever
agia ndada~even though it doesn't
agia pe~if at all
ago rohana~trouble his heart
agoan hosa~dead
agoan hosa~die
agoan uhum~vile
agoi amang~Ouch
agong birong~black charcoal
aha ardoanna~what's the matter?
aha arsakna~what's the complaint?
aha bolon~what's big?
aha do~is
aha do~What
aha hatumbar~what is coriander
aha labana~what's the benefit?
aha ma~whatever
aha orong~what's the complaint?
aha panghorhonna~what are the consequences
aha patorang~what's up?
aha rimasmu~what are you angry about?
aha ugamona~what is his religion?
aha upana~what is the salary?
ahu do~it's me
ahu ma~it's me
ahu pe~I also
ahu sisingamangaraja~I'm Sisingamangaraja
ai aha~Actually
ai hatotong~why are you surprised?
ai lapa~why surgery?
ajang roha~drunk
alai ansi~but deceptive
alai dilopokhon~but it takes priority
alai hasabamon~but patience
alai hubege~but I heard
alai natana~but it's true
alai parangem~but your behavior
alai parila~but shy
alai pomparan~but hereditary
alai sala~even though it's wrong
alai sangsi~but hesitant
alaman bolak~spacious yard
alang adong~disinclined
alang roha~worry
alang roha~disinclined
alani aha~Why
alani amangamanghu~because of my husband
alani haulionna~because of her beauty
alani i~consequence
alani i~precisely
alani paburbanghon~for pretending
alani pambahenanmi~because of your actions
alani partondionna~because of his spirit
alani pestana~because of the party
alani satutuna~because really
alapi bere~pick up your nephew
alapi hepengmi~take your money
alapi inangmi~pick up your mother
alapi ma~take it
alapi pahompu~pick up grandchildren
alapma au~pick me up
alat rohana~alert
albas galumbang~crashing waves
albas tais~blow away
ale oloma~oh yeah
aleale kompak~best friend
alimos domino~domino meaning
alimos mengge~submerged meaning
alimos olo~meaning yes
alimos silu~immediate meaning
alimos tuhan~meaning of god
alit alit~circumference
alit bolit~convoluted
alit tondi~offended
alit ulok~snake coil
allang ma~eat it
allanghon ma~eat it
allangonmu pasuda~finish your food
allong tarombo~left behind genealogy
alo marlumba~race opponent
alogo angonangon~soft breeze
alogo pusok~whirlwind
alona godang~there are many enemies
alu uluan~the commander reported
alusan terimakasih~Mauliate's answer
alusi lambungna~said his neighbor
alusna huhut~he answered while
alut pat~foot massage
ama martani~father farms
ama partukkang~Mr mechanic
ama patialaon~Dad fainted
amam simagomago~Your father is unemployed
amang tani~farmer
amangamang biasbias~hateful husband
amangamang juit~naughty husband
amangamang paduahon~second husband
amangamang siparbagaon~reliable husband
amangamang umuli~best husband
amangamanghu langkup~my husband is cheating
amangamanghu tuba~my husband is fierce
amangna dohar~his father was lucky
amban maniru~why cheat
ambar tandol~shallow pool
ambat apotan~South latitude
ambung manombo~easy to relapse
ambung mardandi~easy to sulk
ambung tangan~light hand
amongmu denggan~your father is good
ampa manghatahon~wise to say
ampun nahinaholongan~forgive me sire
ampuna hoda~horse owner
anaha porman~my son is pious
anak alealena~his best friend's son
anak asrama~boarding school children
anak badia~pious child
anak baju~shirt
anak baoa~son
anak baoa~youth
anak baoa~son
anak basah~son
anak binatang~baby animal
anak boru~girl
anak boru~young woman
anak boru~daughter
anak borua~daughter
anak boruboru~virgin
anak botang~brave boy
anak burabura~curse child
anak dajal~brat
anak hasianna~his beloved child
anak hopal~ship's crew
anak ilik~baby lizard
anak itona~his brother's son
anak jaotjaot~lost child
anak lobu~slave
anak marhaporseaon~child of faith
anak martua~lucky child
anak palimahon~fifth child
anak parana~youth
anak paredangedang~adventurous child
anak partigatiga~merchant's son
anak porman~pious child
anak ranto~nomad
anak semang~waiter
anak semang~servant
anak sikkola~student
anak somang~waiter
anak somang~servant
anak tagelleng~smallest child
anak tangkang~bad boy
anak tobok~innocent child
anakna lua~his son ran away
anang ma~Who knows
andarasi lapatanna~andasi means
ande di~hand it over
ande pa~give it up
andorang akor~when you get along
andorang dipareso~when corrected
andorang manariashon~is announcing
andorang manaruhon~when delivering
andorang mangulahon~working on
andorang marulaon~in progress
andorang marulaon~are partying
andorang ngolum~all your life
andorang pinarade~being prepared
andorang udur~waiting in line
andos roha~hits the heart
anduri harbue~winnowing rice
anduri imbar~looks different
andurian rea~hedgehog
anggi hamlethu~my little sister
anggi lobangon~toothless sister
anggi panoroni~younger step-brother
anggiat benget~good luck
anggiat bosur~I hope you're full
anggiat dipajonok~hopefully it's closer
anggiat tarpasiding~hopefully spared
anggihi tarsinta~my beloved sister
anggo bajuna~if it's the clothes
anggo ditudoshon~when compared
anggo mangoloi~if you obey
anggo songoni~if like that
anggo taringot~if you remember
anggota nadohot~participant's personal
anggota ni~personal para
angka dia~where
angka dotdot~shiver
angka hata~talk
angka hitir~shiver
angka hitir~afraid
angka silbak~torn
angka silbak~ripped
angka siltak~broken
angka siltak~cracked
angka sursar~untidy
angkal balga~great effort
angkal sagogona~best efforts
angkang dianju~I'm forgiven brother
angkang gelleng~little brother
angkang jabir~talkative sister
angkang maranggi~brothers
angkang pangajari~construction sister
angkang pardagingon~your brother
angkang parjolo~first brother
angkang parumbukhon~Brother adjusts
angkang rambonon~my sister is short-sighted
angkang sali~Borrowed brother
angkang satorbang~same age brother
angkang sisolhot~older sibling
angkang tabutabu~pregnant brother
angkang ulihu~my beautiful sister
angkat doras~heavy adoption
angkat haithait~pole vault
angkat ma~jump
angkiningan pinahamat~previously considered
angkup begu~ghost partner
angkup mudarmi~by your blood
angkup ni~besides
angkup ni~as well as
angkup panggonti~replacement partner
angkup panurirang~by the prophet
angkup poda~by teachings
angkup pongkot~additional capital
angkup tatapan~by gaze
angon angon~a breeze
aning huar~waiting to unload
aning parenta~waiting for orders
aning pargulmiton~waiting for movement
aning tolopan~waiting for approval
aning udur~waiting in line
anjak juli~stepped on July
anjeanje mandao~slowly moving away
anju asi~caress love
annon bura~I'll be fine later
annon dipaboa~will be notified later
annon hasuharonna~later it will be the opposite
annon hatuaon~I'll be old later
annon heu~you'll get tired later
annon hupaboa~I'll tell you later
annon husuba~I'll try later
annon ma~later
annon marpilitan~later guilty
annon nata~later separated
ansiat bontean~as a port
ansiat lompan~as a side dish
ansiat sipajagarjagar~as decoration
ansiat ursa~as a deer
antaran hu~my page
anti pati~The leaves of this tree are sour and are used as an additional seasoning for starch fish dishes
antuk adongma~sleepiness is
antuk antuk~hit hit
anture hapataran~need clarity
anture pahehe~need encouragement
anture puliling~need touch
aoangaoang las~warm air
aoasi parkarejo~supervise workers
apala donganhu~my friend
apala ias~at least clean
apala impas~truly without exception
apala ipe~just now
apala lagak~at least handsome
apala utus~really
apoapo bonar~encouragement
apoapo pingkiran~thought encouragement
apoapo roha~impulse
apoi pinsangpinsang~reprimand reprimand
apostel apostel~apostle apostle
apotan balga~big south
apotan metmet~small south
apul ratu~console the queen
apusapus sambubu~crime
arbing baju~hang clothes
arbing holong~hanging love
ardang dangol~sad hum
ardang sihol~longing poetry
ardang sihol~longing hum
ardo mangalompa~about cooking
ardo siaha~about sipolan
arga ambang~light price
ari hamonangan~victory day
ari hatutubum~your birthday
ari jeges~nice weather
ari jempek~short day
ari logo~drought
ari palimahon~fifth day
ari pardamean~peace day
ari parjolo~prime day
ari parpudi~hereafter
ari pesta~Christmas
ari sipanudu~index day
arina udan~rainy day
arop muat~Please be advised
arsean daging~hot body
arta ginonggomanna~his property
artini pondok~means hut
aruaru rarak~hoarse throat
aruaru sa~his throat
asa atim~let it be delicious
asa bisuk~to be clever
asa dapotan~let's get it
asa diapas~to be insulted
asa dibaritahon~to be reported
asa dibasbas~to be hit
asa hubege~let me hear
asa huhilalahon~let me think
asa huhut~let it be all at once
asa manuanhon~to instill
asa marulaon~let's party
asa tarpasiding~to avoid it
asa tau~to be harmonious
asa tio~to be clear
asal alogo~wind source
asal habangsoon~national origin
asal hadumaon~source of prosperity
asal hagogoonhi~source of my strength
asal hamoraon~source of wealth
asal pandaraman~source of livelihood
asal torkan~just guessing
asang pa~reliable right?
asar pidong~bird nest
asi basabasana~his grace
asi haholongan~dear lover
asi marhua~darling, what's up?
asi parang~give me a machete
asi patulushon~darling, let it go
asi roha~pity
asi siholmu~love miss you
asi taruk~darling cough
asi todo~show me
asi tong~eternal love
asingni i~except
asingni inonghu~apart from my mother
assim loni~salty times
atap laho~the bottom of the pot goes
atas marujungngolu~upon his passing
ate hagaleon~not a weakness
ate ido~that's not it
ate potongan~not appearance
ate pumpe~not a doll
ate roha~not mean
ateate mangabuk~feeling of urgency
ateatem ma~your heart
ateatemi ma~your heart
ateatemu ma~your heart
atik beha~perhaps
atik boha~perhaps
atik ma~Who knows
atik ma~maybe
atik pe~although
atik pe~though
atik pe~although
atikma ido~maybe that's it
atim hipas~healthy delicious
atimi inumonmi~enjoy your drink
atimi pardalananna~enjoy the journey
au amangamangna~I'm her husband
au anju~I understand
au antuasu~I'm a wolf
au auga~I'm rowing
au bangkol~I'm reluctant
au barobo~I caught it
au bene~I'm tired
au bura~I'm strong
au dialo~I was resisted
au do~it's me
au ebat~I'm visiting
au ebati~I visit
au gilok~I'm a caterpillar
au habir~I depend
au halupahonon~I'm forgotten
au hatahon~I say
au helam~I am your son-in-law
au heu~I'm tired
au jaotjaot~I'm lost
au jujung~I uphold
au lehe~I was wrong
au lihi~I'm slim
au lumbang~I'm relieved
au ma~it's me
au mandompakhon~I turned
au manganju~I understand
au mangenges~I nudged
au maos~just me
au marhosa~I breathe
au maronjat~I'm breathless
au marumur~I am
au marupahon~I am
au medangedang~I wander
au mohopan~I'm hot
au mosok~I'm burnt
au nabung~I'm bald
au nampunasa~I'm the owner
au naniolina~I am his wife
au nautnaut~I'm in a daze
au ondihon~I protect
au parmabuk~I'm a drunk
au paspas~I slapped
au pe~I also
au pistar~I'm skilled
au sarupa~I'm barrel
au satahi~I agree
au simagomago~I'm unemployed
au sonom~I desire
au tarabuk~I had to
au tarsintak~I gasped
au tobok~I'm innocent
au tomu~I'm following
au tongoshon~I have sent
au topar~I punched
aut sugari~if
aut sugari~if
aut sugarina~if
aut sura~If
aut sura~if
ba tuan~Yes sir
baba jabuhu~the mouth of my house
baba lubaklubak~sewer mouth
baba munsung~snout mouth
baba tedak~mouth open
babami pilat~your mouth is a dick
babi bolon~big pig
babi diharangan~wild boar
babi hiltung~round pig
babi ramuan~pork recipe
babiat dangka~branch tiger
babiat hunik~yellow tiger
babiat jekjek~naughty tiger
babiat lobangon~toothless tiger
babiat metmet~little tiger
babiat ringkot~cute tiger
babiat rittik~crazy tiger
bada antus~misunderstanding
bada rohana~stupid
bada saotik~slight difference
bada torus~keep fighting
bada umur~age difference
badan hu~my body
baea pangaranto~migrant man
baen guntur~make trouble
baenan mi~your creation
bagak basar~beautiful friendly
bagak diranap~beautiful to look at
bagak do~beautiful
bagak jagar~beautiful beautiful
bagak ma~be beautiful
bagak pagar~beautiful antidote to pain
bagak rupana~cool face
bagak tangkasna~cool for sure
bagakna hutahu~my village is beautiful
bagakna oma~beautiful mom
bagas boban~in charge
bagas dalihan~in the organization
bagas dingoluhu~in my life
bagas halenseng~in doubt
bagas hasandirionhu~in my solitude
bagas joro~church
bagas mangurupi~in raising
bagas parkongsian~in fellowship
bagas rohana~wise
bagas rohana~wise
bagasna lombang~deep ravine
bagian hamsar~smooth quota?
bagian hepengmi~your share of the money
bagong sia~bagong nine
bagong siak~spicy bagong
bagudung marbada~mice fight
habut~misty
hirang~basket
hutam~your hometown
pansar~sprayed
tarhatotong~amazed
bahen diha~what are you doing?
bahen diingot~to remember
bahen gait~just for fun
bahen lomom~make you like it
bahenan amangamanghu~made by my husband
bahenan au~made by me
bahenan inonghu~my mother made
bahenan ise~made by whom?
bahenmu saguman~all for you
bajar marmarga~teenager surnamed
baju ijo~green shirt
baju parkarejo~employee clothes
bajur amangamang~husband's work
bajur mura~simple work
balasting pareman~thug tax
balau marsinondang~luminous blue
balbal tarsor~mace tumben
balerong huta~village hall
balerong langkitang~snail hall
balga butuha~big belly
balga panggul~big ass
balga tarus~big breasts
baliksa apala~especially
baliksa saut~actually so
balimbing tonggi~sweet starfruit
balinsu dila~sprained tongue
balinsu ondeng~just sprained it
baliung golom~hand axe
balo roha~like
balok on~this limit
balos sa~he replied
balos tonahu~reply my message
balu birat~plump widow
balu jumolo~leading widow
balun timbaho~roll of tobacco
bangkit ma~it arises
bangkithon pardamean~increase peace
bangko hoga~happy custom
bangkol au~I'm embarrassed
bangkol au~I'm embarrassed
bangkol loni~reluctant at times
bangkol mulak~reluctant to go home
bangso tarpunjung~remote tribe
banjar mora~rich row
banua ginjang~hereafter
banua ginjang~heaven
bao~besan
baoa kanji~Kanji guy
baoa ojak~established man
baoa pangiburu~jealous man
baoa sadasa~own man
baoang bodat~monkey onions
bara bubuk~cocoa powder
bara dali~milk chocolate
bara hurung~cage brackets
bara tonggi~sweet chocolate
barang rungkung~neck stuff
barani juara~dare to win
barani ro~dare to appear
barita dangol~sad news
barita migar~stale news
barita nauli~gospel
barita on~This article
baro imbulu~boil
baro lilit~convoluted scabies
barobo maraek~caught red-handed
barutu ulu~head bump
basabasa hami~our gift
basabasa naumbalga~greatest gift
basir hansa~glass shard
ilik~lizard 
jambu~Guava 
manggotil~pinches
marlaoan~traveling
peol~crooked
piaraan~domesticated
tompas~collapsed
tuarang~popular
osang~chin
suhul~earthquake
batang aek~river
batang inggu~Sunday's coffin
batisan tambon~butt cleavage
batisan tondihu~my soulmate
batu batu~seeds
batu diam~silent stone
batu dukung~galangal stone
batu hapur~limestone
batu intan~gemstones
batu mumbang~pumice
batu panangga~dog beans
batu pungga~grindstone
baurbaurhon ma~make it work
baurbaurhonma dalanhu~make my way smooth
be leheng~every character
be puliling~every touch
be sipasingot~every warning
bege ma~listen
begu aha~whatever
begu emper~porch ghost
begu rahat~vicious ghost
begu tunggal~male ghost
beha baritam~how's your news?
beha do~how
beha hian~how it was
beha sirarion~how to discuss
belek rumar~empty can
benda ni~that slow
bene mi~you're tired
benget martangiang~diligently pray
bere hu~my nephew
bere karo~Karo language nephew
bere nabung~bald nephew
bere parompuan~niece
bere parompuan~niece
bere tarsinta~beloved nephew
bereng ma~take a look
beta digagat~let's eat
beta gandeng~let's join forces
beta guruhon~come learn
beta hamu~come on
beta ma~come on
beta manurat~let's write
beta mardomu~let's meet
beta markato~let's tell a story
beta morot~let's move
beta patu~come on, obey
beta udur~come on line
betak ma~maybe
bianghu asi~my dear dog
bianghu on~this is my dog
biar budingkil~afraid of bumps
biar hapodoman~afraid of falling asleep
biar lonong~afraid of drowning
biar marsogot~afraid of tomorrow
biarna au~I'm afraid
bias marpogo~tired of holding on
bias ngolu~tired of life
bibi jungkat~evil duck
bibir daoldaolon~pale lips
bibir hondur~sagging lips
bibit bolatbolat~dividing line
bibit uha~dash line
bilangan tangga~count of rice fields
bilolangon au~I'm nervous
biluk diatas~the room above
bilut bangke~morgue
bilut tarhinsu~the room is locked
binanga ias~clean river
binatang manduhut~grazing animals
bingkas alualu~basis for complaint
bingkas boruboru~female base
bingkas hamamate~dead cause
bingkas lampet~simple basis
bingkas marniang~skinny bastard
bingkas nona~senile bastard
bingkas pabandothu~basic itching
bingkas panipu~you liar
bingkas parbegu~infidel
bingkas pargabus~what a liar
bingkas rura~valley floor
binsan denggan~as long as it's good
binsan ngolu~while alive
binsan sasadaon~while alone
binsar ma~come out
bintang paraloan~star of the match
biraon ho~you're presumptuous
biraon hunik~sassy yellow
birong mutung~dull black
birong orong~black groaned
birong sio~shaded black
birsakbirsak tijur~splash of spit
birubiru metmet~little lamb
bistok mangardang~clever humming
bistok mangetong~clever at calculating
bistok manortor~good at dancing
bisuk libas~clever hit
bitik diri~personal experience
boa ina~tell mother
boaboa ojak~official announcement
boaboa tu~notification to
boan lambok~bring cool
boan ma~bring it
boasa dibutbut~why was it revoked?
boasa dipamate~why turn off?
boasa do~why?
boasa do~why
boasa goarna~why the name?
boasa ma~why?
boasa mamarengkeli~why laugh?
boasa mamilit~why step aside?
boasa margabus~why lie?
boasa monangdo~why did you win?
boasa motorna~why the car?
boasa patmu~why your feet
boasa pinggolmu~why your ears
boasa ripas~why are you dead?
boasa sega~why soak?
boasa silonging~why is it quiet?
boasa so~why is it stuck?
boasa targotap~why is it disconnected?
boban dingolumu~burden in your life
bodat medang~monkeys around
bodat~monkey
bodil bosar~cannon
boha baritam~how's your news?
boha do~how
boha ma~how
boha pe~whatever
boha pe~however
bohado ujung~how does it end?
bohal ngolu~life provisions
bohama ido~that's how it is
bohi bibit~wise face
bohi leas~indifferent face
bohi saksak~sparkling face
bohi ulimu~your beautiful face
bohihu roa~my face is ugly
bohim muraan~your face is cheap
bohim sidadaon~your face is spotty
bohim tudos~your face is like
boho damangna~just like his father
boi dietong~can be calculated
boi dihara~can be invited
boi do~usually
boi do~maybe
boi edang~can go sightseeing
boi ma~it could be
boi ma~okay
boi mangamini~can forgive
boi nidok~can be said
boi rasun~can (poison)
boido beha~how can it be?
bojak balga~big frog
bojak susa~frogs are difficult
bojok jahana~confused to read
bojok mirdong~confused dizzy
bola dua~halve
bolak luat~an area
bolak pangajian~areas of expertise
bolak roha~startled
bolak roha~surprised
bolak sompit~wide narrow
bolas disuba~you can try
bolas ma~it could be
bolas ma~okay
bolas ma~go on
bolas manompang~can ride
bolas nituhor~can be purchased
bolas putik~until picked
bolas talipon~you can call
bolat hagulsakon~usability limits
bolatan hadaulaton~limits of sovereignty
bolatbolat lapatanna~separator meaning
bolatbolat pardagingon~physical restrictions
boli ma~buy it
bolis denggan~good devil
bolong mommon~blow your nose
bolus borngin~night crossing
bolus jambatan~via the bridge
bolushon do~did you miss it?
bolushon ondeng~just skip it
bombon bara~chocolate candy
bona masala~main problem
bona panghataion~subject of discussion
bona pusupusuhu~the base of my heart
bona rohahi~bottom of my heart
bona sumbang~sawer tree
bonan dolok~Hill
bonana banje~basically it's okay
bonana jolma~basically people
bonana sian~the source is from
bonang jait~sewing thread
bonar dainangi~my mother's spirit
bonar do~that's right
bonar dopang~fighting spirit
bonar ma~that's right
bonar ma~be honest
bonar mandopang~fighting spirit
bonar marlumba~competitive spirit
bonarna sintahi~my sincere love
bonda hu~mine
bonda parompuan~woman's
bongak karo~handsome Karo language
bongka bona~main thing
bongkak bibirhu~my lips are swollen
bongot ma~be quiet
boni hadengganon~seeds of goodness
boni holong~seed of love
boni indahan~grains of rice
boni nadumenggan~quality seeds
boni suhat~taro seeds
boni timbaho~tobacco seeds
bonor ma~be honest
bonos mandosdos~bored boring
bontar dali~milky white
bontar daoldaolon~pale white
bontar do~white?
bontor ma~be honest
bontor ma~believe me
bor juni~June drill
boras pulut~meshed rice with sap
boraspati pambarani~brave lizard
borat dagingna~pregnant
borhat ma~go
bori alit~worried about being offended
bori sungkana~worried, awkward
borit engsel~joint pain
borit sahali~very painful
borngin harosuon~gathering night
borngin parjolona~his first night
bornginna borua~girl's night
bornginna parompuan~girls' night
bornok matana~his eyes watered
borotan horbo~buffalo mooring
borotan roha~heartbreak
borsang boto~tofu dregs
borsang kalapa~coconut pulp
borsang tes~tea dregs
bortian ina~mother's womb
borua buea~crocodile girl
borua honas~pineapple girl
borua jabir~talkative girl
borua lumban~village girl
borua paredangedang~adventurous girl
borua parila~shy girl
borua parungkil~warrior girl
borua poso~young girl
borua sudung~special girl
borua tobok~innocent girl
borua umuli~the most beautiful girl
boruboru ajiajian~magical woman
boruboru~virgin
boruboru batak~Batak virgin
boruboru manghorhon~women cause
boruboru marhamulian~married woman
boruboru pahehe~encouraging woman
boruboru tangkurak~skull woman
boruboru tunggal~male female
boruboru umuli~the most beautiful woman
bosi bosi~iron iron
bosol panangga~dog boils
bosol sinta~love boils
bosur bakso~full of meatballs
botang manukna~the cock is strong
botari kedanhu~afternoon my friend
boti ma~like this
boti ma~that's it
boti ma~that's how it is
botik~papaya
botik bibi~papaya curds
boto do~you know
boto do~he said
botol pansar~spray bottle
botul ma~that's right
botulna angguliman~true saying
botulna hatam~you're right
botulna hudia~where exactly?
bou baion~pandan smell
bou bangke~the smell of corpses
bou buntak~smell of mud
bou mandoit~strong scent
bou pote~the smell of petai
bou tandi~distinctive smell
bouna mandoit~the smell is strong
buangga lengen~too fun
buas ma~it's a splurge
buas palumehon~royal save
buat hambolna~take advantage
buat malal~make it uncomfortable
buat marsak~make it boring
buat pangimbung~make you lust
buat parsaulianna~take the lesson
buat punam~make yours
buat tabo~make it delicious
bubur marlumba~racing porridge
bubur migar~stale porridge
bubur sagu~marrow porridge
budingkil simajujungna~bump on his head
buea hu~my crocodile
buea ponggol~tail-less crocodile
buea tanga~damn crocodile
bugang posa~seriously injured
bugang saotikpe~the slightest injury
bugang saudutna~next wound
buhabuha ijuk~dawn
buhai ahaon~start what
buhai dipauli~started to be built
buhai ganggang~starting to fall apart
buhai manuturi~start arranging
buhai sosa~starting to fade
buktihon sadasa~prove it yourself
buku ende~songbook
buku na~that book
buku parsikkola~student book
buku patik~Bible
buku sulusulu~guidebook
bulaling poda~criticism & suggestions
bulan hatutubu~birth month
bulan juni~June
bulu lapatanna~bamboo is useful
bulu panuhatan~large bamboo pot made of clay for water at home
bulung antirha~cassava leaves
bulung lampak~midrib leaves
bulung rias~dressing leaves
bulung sauo~sapodilla leaves
bulung sonang~happy leaves
bulung suang~leaf series
bulung suhat~taro leaves
bulung timbaho~tobacco leaves
bulus mura~simple simple
bumbu lada~coriander seasoning
bumbu sa~the spices
bumbu tandi~special spices
bumbunan eme~pile of rice
bunbunan harbue~pile of rice
bunbunan rapan~pile of rubbish
bunbunan tabotabo~piles of fat
bunga birong~black roses
bunga ihur~ferret
bunga malambut~beautiful flowers
bunga sogar~fresh flowers
bunga suhat~caladium flower
bungaran sahali~very lively
bungkasan sian~transfer from
buntak isap~suction mud
buntak maderder~liquid mud
bura ina~mother cursed
burbar tarbege~noisy
buri horis~wash the keris
buriapus ma~die
burjuma hasianku~OK, my darling
bursik babana~blurted out his mouth
bursik halakna~the person blurted out
buru pistar~hurry up and be smart
busbus ro~appear soon
busisa rohahi~my heart is angry
busisa tuhan~God is restless
butuha balinsu~sprained stomach
butuha bunsiton~full stomach
butuha gorrok~stomach growling
butuha lamot~small intestine
butuhana mangalit~his stomach knotted
cahaya tapanuli~Tapanuli light
dabodabo tangkasna~that's for sure
dabu roha~pity
dada bidadari~angel's medicine
daga pidom~wow what a shame
daga ulina~wow that's beautiful
daging botang~sturdy body
daging hita~our body
daging lamo~cool body
daging padaodao~bodies far apart
daging ubat~drug butcher
daginghu gale~my body is weak
dagingna gomuk~his body is fat
dagingna sarupa~his body is balanced
dahato banua~continental ripples
dahi sira~climb salt
dahop amangamang~hug your husband
dahop jogi~hug strong
dahop lombu~hug a cow
dahop tokkin~hug for a while
daina assim~it tastes salty
dainang asi~dear mother
dainang martaru~mom gambles
dais ibana~touch him
daisdais galapang~wheel brush
daisdais set~paint brush
dakdanak bongak~great boy
dakdanak mago~missing boy
dalan dihuta~road in the village
dalan mamuhung~circular road
dalan rais~steep road
dalan santopak~footpath
dalan tarutung~durian road
dalan torus~go fast
dalanan landit~slippery roads
dali peang~peot milk
dali tongor~solid milk
dalihan api~fire pit
damang dialap~want to be picked up
damang nini~great father
damang rumar~want to be haram
damang simatua~father-in-law
damang tunggun~authoritative father
damar darurat~emergency resin
damar oto~Stupid resin
damar tano~earth resin
dame asi~peace darling
dame ho~peace you
damor ni~it's soft
dampor ma~get well
damporna gadongna~the sweet potato is delicious
dang ma~no
dang pasipasi~no remains left
dangar loni~barren times
dangar sahali~very dry
dangar sai~very dry
dangdut sebut~Dangdut remains
dangir ma~it's hard
dangka hau~branches
danul ma~be embarrassed
dao ma~stay away
daoi hatoropon~stay away from crowds
daoldaolon ho~you're pale
daona hudia~where is it far?
daong hian~really reluctant
daong lapuk~not rotten
daong ma~it's not
daong sahali~I really don't want to
dapot ma~get it
dapot roha~Certain
dapotan uli~lucky
dapothon botari~before dusk
dapotmu annon~you can later
dapur mamak~mom's kitchen
dapur manguba~kitchen revamp
dare ma~get ready
darurat mangarade~emergency alert
das bosur~until full
das ma~come
das mambahensa~until you make it
das marnono~until he has grandchildren
das mintop~until stuck
das tunduon~until sleepy
dasingan daging~body size
dasingan sipatu~shoe size
datek ma~maybe
datu boruboru~female shaman
datu panggortap~soothsayer
datu sillam~lightning charmer
datu udan~rain charmer
datu ulok~snake charmer
daulat ma~be loyal
deak ma~lots of it
deang deang~lady-in-waiting
debatana ho~are you God?
dekke rata~green fish
dembal ma~hit it
demi mambalanjoi~for the sake of living
demi mangontapi~for the sake of prevention
demi pasidinghon~for the sake of avoidance
denggal utokutok~brain strain
denggan basana~kind
denggan burjuna~good good
denggan dagingna~pregnant
denggan dagingna~contain
denggan iboto~good you know
denggan ma~that's good
denggan ma~Okay
denggan ma~Okay
denggan molo~good if
denggan pamatang~pregnant
denggan pamatang~contain
denggan pamatangna~pregnant
denggan roha~virtuous
denggan sabanua~good in the world
dengganma uduthon~that's good, keep going
dengke disaor~mixed fish
dengke duiung~Mermaid
dengke gombung~puffer fish
dengke marhua~soupy fish
dengke nabalga~Snapper
dengke robus~boiled fish
dengke sambulo~breed fish
dengke sapot~catfish
derem ma~be quiet
detak ma~Who knows
detak ma~maybe
deua abak~god of prosperity
deua deua~god god
dewa natumimbo~supreme god
di abat~in century
di ahu~to me
di ahu~for me
di allangi~eaten
di antoi~mixed
di au~for me
di bagasna~inside it
di balga~in fat
di belek~in the can
di bonana~at first
di botang~in dashing
di buhuli~agreed
di dampol~massaged
di datu~at the shaman
di diha~what are you for?
di dingkan~on the side
di dungoi~woken up
di elek~persuaded
di eret~shifted
di gonting~at the waist
di halung~on the necklace
di hamlethu~for my girl
di hasandirionhu~in my solitude
di hatoropon~in the crowd
di ho~to you
di ho~for you
di hophop~embraced
di humaliang~around
di hundulan~on the stand
di imbus~inflatable
di jaotjaot~lost
di jomuran~on the clothesline
di lolos~missed
di lumban~in the hamlet
di mamalu~to play
di mamporseahon~to reassure
di manghajongjonghon~to watch
di mangontapi~to prevent
di mangumma~to kiss
di maniop~to hold
di manodo~to point
di margogoihon~to strengthen
di marporang~to fight
di marsirang~to divorce
di nangkohan~on the slope
di ngolum~for your life
di paborhat~departed
di pagodanghon~to add
di pajongjonghon~to establish
di paloas~permitted
di pamatanghon~in my body
di pambahenanmu~for your services
di pangurupionmu~for your help
di parengkelhon~laughed at
di parhorasan~for safety
di parsaoran~for harmony
di pasondothon~to stop
di pinalolo~to make
di pinsang~advised
di punguhon~collected
di pusatna~basically
di rahat~in fierce
di rumtum~assembled
di rundut~in tangles
di rupana~on his face
di san~there
di sorong~pushed
di sungguli~made aware
di surgo~in heaven
di tano~on the land
di tapu~quoted
di tidos~oppressed
di tilli~in attention
di tonun~in weaving
di tudostudos~for comparison
di tuhas~accused
di tumpalmu~for your grace
di turgasna~for his advice
dia alana~Why
dia buktina~Where is the proof
dia donganna~where's his friend?
dia harbuena~where's the rice?
dia hepengna~where is the money
dia pipi~where's the face?
dia siluana~where is the present?
diagam roha~suspected
diain talipon~picked up the phone
diajar bibel~taught the Bible
dialap anggi~picked up by my sister
dialuhon ise~who complained?
diamoamo pangus~treated arbitrarily
diangkip api~devoured by fire
diantusi olap~understood about?
diatas jabu~above the house
dibagi padosdos~divided evenly
dibahen angkup~caused by
dibahen goragora~because of the call
diban tembak~sentenced to be shot
dibarukbak angkup~destroyed by
dibasbas babami~hit you in the mouth
dibasbas hita~hit us
dibege didia~heard where
dibege tuhan~God heard
dibereng ibana~he saw
dibondut mara~swallowed by disaster
dibongoti bolis~entered by the devil
dibuat habisukon~policy taken
diburai au~I cursed
diburbari ibana~destroyed him
didapot lambung~found approx
didasing marbingkas~measured based on
didia amongmu~where is your father?
didia angkangmi~where is your sister?
didia halusna~where's the problem?
didia hambing~where is the goat
didia modommu~where do you sleep?
didia salahu~where did I go wrong?
didilat ter~asphalt licked
didiori balbal~looking for mace
didiori pamborontak~wanted rebels
didoit ranggiting~stung by a bee
didok soarana~he answered
didongani ende~accompanied by songs
didophon roha~understandable
didophon roha~felt
dieaki huling~followed by sound
digabusi au~I was lied to
digabusi hamlet~lied to by boyfriend
digagat burbur~eaten by termites
digagat pangallang~eaten, eater
diginjang pusok~above the navel
diha ribak~are you torn?
dihangoluhon somalna~carried out normally
dihara bada~invited to fight
dihara dipatorang~invited to explain
dihatindanghon angkup~witnessed by
dihomat alani~closed because
dihuta batak~in a Batak village
diihuthon ende~accompanied by songs
diihuthon soara~accompanied by sound
dijalo pamarenta~requested by the government
dijama jama~hold hold
dijangkon pambahenan~accepted action
dilahu tarharat~my tongue was bitten
dilambung ni~near that
dilami maluka~Your tongue is injured
dilat ondeng~just lick it
dilean baragas~given permission
dilean dalan~given way
dilean panumpak~given approval
dilompa sa~cooked it
dimuruki tangkas~definitely scolded
dingkan parjolo~the first party
dingkan siamun~right side
diogai pangunjunan~attacked by temptation
diolopi ndada~approved or not?
diombus alogo~blown by the wind
diombus hian~blow it first
dionjar sorong~pushed pushed
diontang mangan~invited to eat
diorai mamurai~cursing is prohibited
diorai mangasta~insults are prohibited
diorai mardomu~not allowed to join
diordong rongit~surrounded by mosquitoes
diorui ganasna~less angry
diorui saratus~minus one hundred
diose sori~violated. disaster
diotoi tondongna~cheated by his family
dipabotohon tu~notified to
dipabuni ondeng~just save it
dipahatop dalanna~speed up the journey
dipahatop mulakna~hurry home
dipainte dirim~waiting for you
dipainte parrona~waiting for his presence
dipainte pestana~waiting for the party
dipalao laos~thrown out altogether
dipandokoni gariada~even say so
dipangan api~burnt
dipangke hudia~where to use it?
dipangke ibana~he wears
diparbadiai goarmu~hallowed be your name
dipargut ulok~pricked by a snake
diparhambol maol~appreciated valuable
diparhasomal jae~get used to being independent
diparhasomal joujou~get used to calling
diparngoluon hamuna~in your life
diparsinta dipauli~expected to be built
diparsinta iboto~what do you expect?
dipasupasu anak~blessed with children
dipasupasu tanak~abundantly blessed
dipasupasu tua~blessed
dipasupasuhon pomparan~blessed with offspring
dipatalu au~defeated me
dipataridahon marhitehite~displayed via
dipatudu mulak~shown again
dipature jala~corrected to be
dipature ma~it's arranged
dipauli bandara~airport built
dipeakhon hinan~put it first
dipeakhon ondeng~just put it down
dipikkiran mi~in your mind
dipikkiran on~in this mind
diputik hasapi~plucked on the harp
dirigat a~torn
dirim donda~you are beautiful
diruar rahat~it's fierce outside
disahaphon tu~given to
disalamathon angkup~saved by
disaor balansan~mixed with shrimp paste
disaor tarae~mixed taste
disaor tolor~mixed with egg
disasude pambahenanhi~in everything I do
disesahon dosahu~my sins are wiped away
disesahon sahitna~eradicated the disease
disikkolahon satimbotimbona~educated to the highest level
disirimi tingkir~peeked peeked
dison sabolahu~here beside me
disoroni do~treated?
disuba jo~try it first
disurat jolma~written by someone
disuru angkup~sent by
disuru tuhan~sent by God
ditaban pasiding~taken prisoner, avoid
ditambahon umur~added age
ditangani sa~taken care of
ditangko jolma~stolen by someone
ditanom dihuta~buried in the village
ditanom idia~buried where
ditatap angkup~seen by
ditatap parsorion~look at fate
ditingkosi padan~kept promises
ditiopi ae~feeling restrained
ditiopi tahan~hold hold
ditubuhon parjahat~born a criminal
ditulak elaela~rejected, invitation
ditulushon kuliahna~his studies were launched
dituntun manganna~forced to eat it
diturbing ulok~bitten by a snake
dobar ma~hurry up
dobar obukmu~your hair is thick
dodak babi~pork bran
dodot manjagai~also supervising
dodot marsiadu~join in the competition
dodot marsidohot~also participate
dohar ali~get a reward
dohar demak~lucky and safe
dohar dietong~countable
dohar dipalao~can be expelled
dohar ma~get it
dohar tarpatupa~can be held
dohonon ma~say
dohot amangamangna~with her husband
dohot botohon~with arms
dohot deba~and some
dohot do~follow him
dohot haholonganhu~with my beloved
dohot halomoanhu~and my wishes
dohot hasapi~with the harp
dohot himpal~completely
dohot ho~with you
dohot jala~and or
dohot labana~and fortunately
dohot lumpu~and paralyzed
dohot mamburai~and curse
dohot manaritahon~disappointingly
dohot mangadonghon~by holding
dohot mangula~by hoeing
dohot manongoshon~by sending
dohot marhusip~and whispered
dohot marsidohot~by participating
dohot marsoring~and change
dohot morongorong~by complaining
dohot odoran~and turn
dohot orong~and complain
dohot pahean~with clothes
dohot pambalosan~and retribution
dohot pandok~by title
dohot pangondian~and protection
dohot panimpuli~with conclusions
dohot parbagason~with marriage
dohot parumbukhon~and adjust
dohot silangko~and shortcomings
dohot sipajagarjagar~with decoration
dohot tongam~out loud
dohot tota~regularly
dohotdo au~I'll follow
dohoti ma~follow it
dohoti paraloan~enter the competition
doit listirik~electric shock
dok ma~say it
dok ma~say
dokhon ma~tell me
dokhon ma~say
dolidoli ado~wandering young man
dolidoli dolidoli~virgin man
dolidoli gale~young man fainted
dolidoli lagak~handsome guy
dolidoli mago~virgin lost
dolidoli mamolin~pure virgin
dolidoli martohap~charismatic young man
dolidoli matua~old virgin
dolidoli pangaranto~migrant man
dolidoli paredangedang~adventurous youth
dolidoli peak~lying young man
dolidoli peus~whippersnapper
dolidoli tobok~innocent young man
dolok birong~black mountain
dolok bolat~boundary mountain
dolok margara~volcano
doltuk ma~hit it
domdom sa~his roar
domdom suhul~the rumble of an earthquake
dompak dompak~face to face
dompak pujion~face praise
dompak siamun~facing right
dompol adongma~putty is
domu ma~it's suitable
domu ma~join in
donda parbadia~holy word
dongan gere~joking friend
dongan huta~regional friends
dongan kompak~best friend
dongan margere~friend joking
dongan marlumba~racing friends
dongan naposo~in a relationship
dongan saama~brothers
dongan sabutuha~family
dongan sadalan~friends in the same direction
dongan saparmeaman~playmate
dongan saripe~wife
dongan saripe~wife
dongan saripe~wife
dongan saripe~Mrs
dongan saripe~husband
dongan saroha~friends of one heart
dongan torbang~peer
dongan tubu~family
donganhu hea~my friend did
donganhu manungkunhon~my friend asked
dongani au~accompany me
dongani ibana~friend him
dongani la~accompany him
dongani ma~be friends
dongkon ondeng~just say it
dopdopan dengke~fish filter
dopdopan miak~oil filter
dophon roha~understand
doras ma~hurry up
doras ma~hurry up
dorsun huhilala~gross I think
dorun ma~it's hard
dos ma~same thing
dos sondang~like light
doton dengke~fishing nets
doton doton~net net
dua borua~two girls
dua lampis~two layers
dua sirimpuson~two fingers
duansa jeges~both are good
duguldugul mi~your knees
duhut aos~repeated grass
duhut matua~old grass
duhut ramba~shrub grass
duhut ri~weeds
duma bagas~deep inside
duma demak~prosperous and prosperous
dungdung ahu~grab me
dungdung pandungdungion~achieve achievements
dungkon hupangido~that's why I asked
dungkon marlaiar~after sailing
dungkon ni~except
dungkon sangombas~after a season
dungkon tammat~after finishing
dungkonsa ibana~except him
dungo boroti~build blocks
dungodungo marjagajaga~just in case get ready
dungoi ma~wake up
durak ma~be embarrassed
durus mudarna~his blood flows
ebang loakon~showing off stupidity
ebat ma~come
eda indonesiana~There's Indonesia
edang bahari~Marine tourism
edang hudia~where are you traveling?
edang pasir~Beach tourism
edang sarita~historical tourism
ehet jolma~people taunted
elek au~persuade me
elek ma~persuade me
elekelek dianju~Please forgive me
elekelek dipupus~please guide
elekelek ditonahon~please order
elekelek marbinereng~Attention, please
elekelek parrona~please attend
elekelek rohana~attention please
embus gitar~blow the guitar
eme jambulan~hair rice
emper metmet~small porch
emper parjolo~first homepage
endat ida~suck look
endat ma~suck it up
endat torus~keep sucking
endat utokna~suck his brain
ende halomoanhu~my favorite song
ende halomoonhu~my favorite song
endehon ondeng~just sing it
engger mate~aim dead
engger tembak~aim fire
engkel sonang~happy laugh
engkel tuba~fierce laughter
engkelhon ondeng~just laugh it off
eol embas~flailing motion
etong annon~count later
etong hepeng~count money
etong jo~count first
etongan maninga~mathematics
gabe ma~Okay
gabe ma~be
gabe nanialap~be a mistress
gabe pangambati~become a hindrance
gabe sahit~so it's a disease
gabung ma~join in
gabus ma~lie
gadis heang~selling private parts
gadong antirha~cassava
gadong hau~cassava
gadong insir~sweet potato
gadong insir~yam
gadong robus~boiled sweet potato
gadong suhat~taro sweet potato
gait ringkot~funny joke
gait sahali~what a joke
gaitna dirim~you're funny
gaitna holonghon~this is funny my darling
gaji pilitpilit~guilty salary
gaji upa~salary wages
galak api~flame
galak torus~keep on
galang lapatan~gain meaning
galang paniaran~support married wives
galapang hangoluon~wheel of life
galapang lereng~bicycle wheel
galapang padati~cart wheel
galapang padati~cart wheels
gale gale~limp limp
gale marhatai~speechless
gale merung~weak and thin
galege ma~it's broken
galeto loni~tough times
galumbang hangoluon~wave of life
galumbang holong~wave of love
galumbang laut~sea wave
galung hauma~rice field embankment
gamang gamang~fear fear
gamang mabiar~nervously afraid
gamang tahe~scared yeah
ganaganaan~idols
ganana gonong~the shape is round
ganana lunjung~oval shape
gangguan mental~mental disorders
ganjang boa~general length
ganjang dilam~your tongue is long
ganjang hosa~long breath
ganjang patna~lasak
ganjang pondok~hut length
ganjang punam~your length
ganjang rungkung~neck length
gansi angguliman~speech order
ganti mengamini~forgive each other
ganup ari~awaited
ganup ma~enough
ganup suhu~every expert
ganupan aleale~all friends
ganupan parkarejo~all employees
gaor loni~noisy times
gaor panangga~fucked dog
gapgap ma~lie
garang hau~dare wood
garang manopot~dare to meet
garangna manginsak~how dare to criticize
garar dua~pay two
gargaji masin~Chainsaw
gari amonghu~even my father
gari dipatorang~even explained
gari seasea~even in vain
gariada dipatorang~even explained
gariada hulingna~even the sound
garpa juo~sperm dregs
gasa ondeng~just furious
gasak ma~hurry up
geanggeang baju~hangers
gedekgedek bodat~monkey armpit
gedekgedek daldal~sour armpit
geneng pira~oval
geno ma~it's broken
geok sadasa~amused yourself
gere asi~joked darling
gere torus~keep joking
gerhana bulan~lunar eclipse
gerhana mataniari~solar eclipse
giak hansar~nausea diarrhea
giak muta~nauseous vomit
giang ateate~nervous
giang ateate~chaotic
giling ember~grind the bucket
giling ma~grind it
gilok api~fire caterpillar
ginjang gokhonna~at his invitation
ginjang roha~haughty
ginjang roha~arrogant
ginjang roha~arrogant
ginjang roha~proud
giot didahop~want to be hugged
giot humutur~want to sway
giot ligat~want to be agile
giot lonong~almost drowned
giot ma~go ahead
giot ma~be diligent
giot ma~be happy
giot mambaritahon~want to report
giot maniru~want to emulate
giot marlojong~want to run
giot palolohon~want to make
giot tarago~almost fooled
giot tarlibas~almost hit
gira ma~hurry up
girgir ma~be diligent
gisgis somak~bush tripe
goarhu bolon~my name is akbar
goarhu mala~my name is philanthropist
godang do~many
godang gali~lots of matches
godang gararan~many installments
godang hagulsakon~many uses
godang hamlethu~many of my girls
godang harangan~lots of forests
godang hatam~you talk a lot
godang hatana~lots of talk
godang hepengmi~you have a lot of money
godang hian~lots of rules
godang huting~lots of cats
godang isina~lots of content
godang kobun~lots of gardens
godang kombur~lots of bullshit
godang langkuponmu~you have lots of mistresses
godang lomona~lots of likes
godang ma~lots of it
godang mampar~widely spread
godang manukna~lots of chickens
godang naniomo~lots of income
godang pangidoanmu~you have many requests
godang rohana~many desires
godang sidalianna~many reasons
godang suga~lots of thorns
godang tabotabo~lots of fat
godang tongosan~lots of posts
godangna hepengna~a lot of money
godangna leak~lots of behavior
godung balga~big building
godung modom~sleeping building
godung sa~its building
gogo juang~power struggle
gogo ma~be strong
gogot dialo~hard to fight
gok ma~lots of it
gok ma~enough
gok mandosdos~full, boring
gok roha~satisfied
gok roha~like
golang bonang~thread bracelet
golang tonun~woven bracelet
gombung butuha~stomach bloat
gomgom babamu~control your mouth
gomgomi ma~protect it
gomos ma~be strong
gompis do~healthy
gompis ma~steady
gompis ma~be healthy
gondit ulu~head belt
gonong mangmang~determined
gonong saridondonon~dirty round
gopas ma~be strong
gora ondeng~just scream
gora portibi~world matters
goragora panondur~the audience shouted
goragora pedan~call a friend
goragora timbul~high calling
gota damar~gum resin
gota pinasa~jackfruit sap
gotil pinggol~ear pinch
gotil sapata~reap karma
guga roha~undecided
gula bagot~palm sugar
gula itak~sugar, flour
gula tobu~cane sugar
gule pahu~fern curry
gule pinasa~jackfruit curry
gulmiton mansam~variation movement
gulmiton musu~anti movement
gulmiton paraloan~resistance movement
guna tartontu~certain functions
gundar jo~brush first
gundur balga~big pumpkin
guntur roha~heart trouble
gunung tolbak~mountain landslide
gusar hian~get angry first
guting huhilala~dirty I think
guting litok~dirty, murky
haadongon apusi~state of affairs
habagakon dilopokhon~quality comes first
habahaba habahaba~typhoon
habar barita~News
haberengan bonana~you can see the stem
haberenganna sobu~looks fun
habilangan dungkon~counted after
habir angkang~Depends bro
habir hasesega~depending on the damage
habir igungna~depending on the nose
habis ma~it's over
habis ma~that's it
habisukon babami~your mouth policy
habisukon pamanganhu~my mouth policy
habong au~my wings
habong manuk~chicken wings
habong rajauali~eagle wings
habong sigak~raven wings
habot dison~it's cloudy here
habot holom~dark clouds
habot lambok~cool cloudy
habotna angkang~sad brother
habotna ngoluhu~my life is sad
habubungkas parhundul~migration
hadadao hutam~your village is far away
hadameon batinhu~my inner peace
hadang do~clothes?
hadang nasala~wrong clothes
hadaulaton nagara~state sovereignty
hadoson hata~synonym
haduan angkangmu~the day after tomorrow your brother
hadumaon rap~shared prosperity
hadungon hauma~end of the rice fields
hadungon tingko~round tip
hae hae~thigh thigh
hae jolo~quadriceps
hae pat~thigh
haenna bagak~the fabric is beautiful
haganjangon~stands
haganjangon batak~stands for Batak
haganjangon manurung~manurung stands for
haganjangon sian~stand for
haganjangon sianturi~stands for sianturi
haganjangon sidabutar~stands for sidabutar
hagogoon haganupan~overall robustness
hagulsakon ulu~head use
hahapong jangguton~beard rush
haholonganmu dia~where's your favorite?
haholongi dongan~love each other
haholongi manisia~love humans
hajadian holom~dark event
hajanghajang borngin~evening horizon
hala birong~black scorpion
halado ateate~serve feelings
halado gareja~church council
halado ruas~congregational council
halakna pargabus~the person is a liar
halalapan au~I forgot
halalapan mantat~negligence results
halang butuha~stomach upset
halas gambiri~candlenut galangal
halenseng mula~initial doubts
haleon haporseaon~crisis of faith
halian aek~ditch
halian aek~drain
halibutongan bagas~deep rainbow
halibutongan holongna~rainbow of love
halibutongan hu~my rainbow
halilian targorak~affected, moved
halilum isi~your shadow is there
haling hinsat~hampered movement
halonganan horsik~desert
halongonan horsik~desert
haluaon muse~let go again
haluaon nangkin~let go
hamagoan pangimbung~loss of appetite
hamagoan pareso~lose control
hamamate kristus~death of christ
hamaolhon panghilalaanna~respect his feelings
hamaolhon parasingan~appreciate differences
hamarhaseaon sajati~true success
hambing balbal~dreadlocked goat
hambing tunggal~male goat
hami diparalangalangan~we are overseas
hami ma~we are
hami marhapateon~we are committed
hami marlae~we are in law
hami pamasahon~we organize
hami puang~we are friends
hami putik~we picked
hami sadalan~we are in line
hami sundati~we cancel
hami tarsumurung~we are special
hamlethu ma~my guy
hamlethu umuli~my most beautiful girlfriend
hamletna bagak~his girlfriend is beautiful
hamonangan sajati~true victory
hamonangan sasintongna~true victory
hamsar karejom~your work smoothly
hamu do~you
hamu ma~it is you
hamu marhua~what are you doing?
hamu marsinondang~you glow
hamu sipolan~you alias
hamuna hagogoonhi~you are my strength
hamuna herek~you apes
hamuna huhasiholi~I miss you guys
hamuna pargabus~you are liars
hanataanna ni~that's the reality
hanataanna sintong~actually true
handehande ido~the shawl
handehande rok~skirt shawl
handit oma~pick up ma
handit tongkin~lift it for a moment
hangoluan duma~sufficient life
hansit dirim~are you sick?
hansit panghilalaanna~his feelings hurt
hansit patna~his leg hurts
hansit pinggolhu~my ear hurts
hansit pinggolmu~your ears hurt
hansit ulu~dizziness
hansit ulu~dizzy
hansur lala~destroyed
hansur rupana~his face was destroyed
hansurhon alom~destroy your opponents
hansurhon rohami~break your heart
haojakan ngolu~focus of life
haojakan roha~heart focus
hapala hopal~ship leader
hapala marpanghorhon~influential leader
hapalang dungdungon~limited range
hapantunon hu~my politeness
hapas panangga~dog cotton
hapit jambulan~hairpin
hapodoman ho~you fell asleep
haporluon ni~that need
hapur gurit~chalk
hapur napuran~lime betel
haraan ho~your invitation
harajaon badia~noble kingdom
harajaon marsada~united kingdom
harajaon sisingamangaraja~kingdom of king Singamangaraja
harang dabu~coral falls
harang niula~coral work
harangan haminjon~frankincense forest
harangan langlang~jungle
harangan longolongo~jungle
harangan ramba~thicket forest
harangon bunga~Wreaths
harbangan lopok~main gate
harbue toru~bottom rice
haret panesa~eraser
hariar dahan~stir cook
harinuan ranggiting~stinging bee
harohaon malua~free will
haroroanhu mamboan~my arrival brings
harotas indahan~rice paper
haru diparhatoban~let alone being enslaved
haru parkarejo~let alone employees
haru rohami~especially your heart
haruarhon bahasa~get the language out
haruarhon taktak~take out the legs
harugian natorop~public loss
harungkut pardompahan~forehead wrinkles
has halilian~easily influenced
hasangapon raja~the majesty of the king
hasangapon tuhan~the majesty of God
hasea pajongjonghon~successfully established
hasian tunggun~authority's favorite
hasianmi ma~you love me
hasianna ina~mother's favorite
hasianna simatua~her mother-in-law's favorite
hasintaan hu~my love
hasiputon au~I'm busy
hasohoton hamamate~marriage death
hasohoton silang~intermarriage
hasomalan limutlimuton~ancient tradition
hasomalon ibana~his habit
hasomalon imbaru~new habit
hassang asi~darling nuts
hassang pago~stake nuts
hasuhuton halomoonhu~my favorite leader
hasundaton alani~failure because
hasundaton luhut~all failure
hata debatana~the word of his god
hata dinamarsirang~parting words
hata gupgap~chaotic
hata inana~said his mother
hata jeges~said slickly
hata mandulo~said visit
hata mangasta~insulting word
hata on~this word
hata pangajian~language skills
hata pangenset~said the teaser
hata panjaloon~opening speech
hata paredangedang~said the explorer
hata posi~pathetic said
hata risa~philosophy says
hata sandar~backword
hata saripehu~my wife said
hata sipaboana~Sign language
hata sipaingot~reprimand
hata sitiopon~promise
hata siunang~prohibition
hata todo~said point
hatahata apoapo~words of encouragement
hatahon ma~say
hatami dianggapi~your words are guarded
hatana balga~big talk
hatatanak roha~steadfastness
hatiaan nipi~dream predictions
hatop ma~hurry up
hatop marangkal~quick to understand
hatop pasang~install it quickly
hatop pauli~make it quickly
hatop tinggil~quick response
hatopma deang~hurry up lady
hatorangan gombarmu~your photo caption
hau alim~tree bark wood
hau ambolong~wasted wood
hau bagot~palm tree
hau bulu~bamboo wood
hau burbur~rotten wood
hau buruk~worn wood
hau hapas~kapok tree
hau joring~jengkol tree
hau kalapa~coconut wood
hau mangga~mango wood
hau parbadia~sacred tree
hau retes~brittle wood
hau sao~sapodilla tree
hau sopi~grape wood
hau tandiang~fern tree
hau tarutung~durian wood
hau unte~orange wood
haua ngali~cold air
haulion lung~beauty of the universe
haulion metmet~little beauty
hauma haminjon~frankincense field
hauma simalungun~Simalungun rice fields
hauma tobu~sugar cane fields
haurakon baoa~male genitalia
haurakon parompuan~female genitalia
hebo ho~you're noisy
hebo luhut~everyone's excited
hehe bontis~nimble and nimble
hehe ma~stand up
hehe pa~lively right?
hela hita~our son-in-law
hela mansoadahon~disobedient son-in-law
heneng pira~oval
hepeng logam~coin
hepeng madabu~money falls
hepeng marlaslas~money running low
hepeng palito~lamp money
hepeng tanak~abundant money
hepengmi sadasa~your own money
herek herek~monkey monkey
herek on~this monkey
heu sahali~very tired
heu sahali~so tired
hian apala~it was like that
hian tarbonggal~very famous
hiap alogo~fan
hibung gambiri~candlenut seeds
hibung longa~sesame seeds
hibung pirapira~testicles
himpal manggoreng~whole fry
himpu jo~get together first
hinaganjang gultom~stands for gultom
hinaganjang nainggolan~Nainggolan stands for
hinsa ma~hurry up
hipas do~healthy
hipas duansa~both healthy
hipas ma~be healthy
hipas saguman~completely healthy
hipas tondongmu~healthy your family
hita do~us
hita lapati~we interpret
hita mahilolong~we postpone
hita marhapateon~we are committed
hita ngail~we fish
hita pulik~we separate
hita rase~we eradicate it
ho alo~you fight
ho bolon~you stay up late
ho dihansiti~you are hurt
ho doit~you taste it
ho ginonggomanna~you are his
ho gotil~you reap
ho hamletna~you're his girlfriend
ho hangar~you are hungry
ho hebo~you're rowdy
ho holongna~you love him
ho ise~Who are you?
ho juit~you are ignorant
ho lea~you are despicable
ho lontik~you carve
ho mangarimpu~you think
ho mara~you're angry
ho marjehe~you betrayed
ho marmatean~you die
ho marmatean~you die
ho mommonon~you're snotty
ho panggeno~you are a destroyer
ho pangimbung~you lust
ho pangolu~you turn it on
ho pasanganhu~you are my partner
ho peleng~you're spoiled
ho punahu~you are mine
ho remeng~you're fussy
ho sonom~you desire
ho tarsumurung~you are special
ho tongam~you are impressive
hobas karejo~working hard
hobas ma~be diligent
hobas ma~get ready
hobas marminggu~active in worship
hoda hatop~fast horse
hodar hian~very unclean
hodar rumar~unclean, unclean
hodok hu~my sweat
hodok sadasa~sweat yourself
hoga sa~he's happy
hoga sahali~very happy
hoji huduru~want to go out
hoji radoti~want to keep it
hojot lao~go quickly
hojot ma~hurry up
holan bargak~just a coward
holan ditatap~just seen
holan kombur~just bullshit
holan lilu~just misguided
holan mandohoti~just follow
holan mangantar~just delivering
holan manghorhonhon~just cause
holan manorhon~just guessing
holan ngorngor~just anxious
holan patunggomhon~just match
holan pinsangpinsang~just a warning
holan rimang~just watch
holan samponggol~just a piece
holan sintap~only limited
holan tumpalmu~just your gift
holan umpasa~just a proverb
holang matombuk~leaking hose
holang tatap~visibility
holangholang malal~between. uncomfortable
holangna tais~the distance is far
hole parau~rowing boat
hole torus~keep rowing
holi isangisang~jaw bone
holi tahuluk~nape bone
holi tanggurung~backbone
holom asi~dark darling
holom golap~pitch black
holom on~this dark
holom sa~its dark
holong bolon~great darling
holong do~his love
holong do~sadly
holong matamu~love your eyes
holong sanggak~darling is amazed
holonghu rongkaphu~I love my soul mate
hona balbal~got dreadlocks
hona bura~got cursed
hona gadis~sold
hona gotani~got the sap
hona hurung~got locked up
hona niroha~got to my heart
hona tutung~burnt
honul langkuk~curved
hopal hutur~rocking plane
hopal sabungan~aircraft carrier
hopal tongtang~fighter
hopal ungkor~submarine
hopi mansam~variety of coffee
hora urat~root civet
horas umbang~hello buoyant
horong gale~weak people
horsik apotan~southern sands
horsik purba~eastern sands
hosa lumbang~breath of relief
hosa ndada~breath or not?
hosinghon hepenghi~give me my money back
hosomna jengeng~the enemy is scary
hot diingot~keep in mind
hot dijonoki~still approachable
hot hembang~still blooming
hot legan~stay stylish
hot ma~steady
hot ma~stay
hot malua~still escapes
hot mangarade~stay alert
hot ripe~marry
hot saoloan~still agree
hotang gonong~round rattan
hu ambang~I'm light
hu balbal~I slammed
hu boa~I'll tell you
hu bursik~I spit
hu eret~I shifted
hu galmit~I pinch
hu gokhon~I invite
hu goreng~I fried it
hu hata~I said
hu husiphon~I whispered
hu juju~I direct
hu ngaet~I've achieved it
hu patiur~I'll brighten it up
hu songgak~I snapped
hu sonom~I desire
hu sumbang~I agree
hu surathon~I wrote it
hu tarpuji~I'm praised
hu tolak~I let go
hu tolopi~I agree
hu topoti~I see
hu tulus~I round it up
hu usehon~I pour it out
hua tio~clear sauce
hualusi porso~I said it was a lie
huang buea~crocodile nose
huang gaja~elephant nose
huar homitan~unload savings
huar sipareon~cotton buds
hubahen olo~I'll do it
hubuat hadangiron~I take misery
hubuat hinan~I'll take it first
hudalani sasudena~I do it all
hudia botulna~where exactly?
hudia hepengmi~where is your money?
hudia igungna~where's his nose?
hudia inong~where's mom?
hudia nomor~where are the numbers?
hudia parnijabu~where are people at home?
hudia tulangna~where is his uncle?
hudokhon bagas~I said deep
hudon indahan~rice pot
hudon metmet~small pot
hudon tano~earthenware pot
hudon tolbak~broken pot
huhaol annon~I'll hug you later
huhilalahon sintamu~I feel your love
huhira ate~I don't think so
huhira isi~I think there is
huhira nari~I think so
huhut mangompa~while carrying
huhut mangonjar~while pushing
huhut parjahat~as well as a criminal
huingot do~I remember
hujabu alealena~to his friend's house
hujalo hasalaanhu~I accept my mistake
hulehon boto~I'll tell you
hulhulan bonang~skein of thread
hulhulan harotas~rolls of paper
hulhulan sigaret~roll of cigarettes
huli godung~construction laborers
huling bulu~bamboo sound
huling paltap-paltap~the sound of a slap
huling sa~the sound
hulingna paributhu~it sounds noisy
hum sa~can't bear it
humaliang hu~around me
humophop anak~fight for children
humophop ngolu~fight for life
hundul ma~sit down
hundul togap~sit up straight
hundulan ondeng~just sit
hunik bolang~striped yellow
hunik bontar~white turmeric
hunik bubuk~turmeric powder
hunik dauk~soft yellow
hunik ni~the turmeric
hunti pagar~uphold the antidote to pain
hupaboa sasara~I'll tell you
hupaima siluana~I'm waiting for the gift
hupamate annon~I'll kill you later
hupamate ho~I'll kill you
hupamate ho~I'll turn you off
hupanotnoti tanohu~I look at my land
huparade salimut~I prepared a blanket
hupasahat pe~I'll convey it too
hupasahat tuho~I'll tell you
hupastap ho~I'll slap you
hupikkir jonok~I think it's close
huponggolhon rungkungmu~I'll break your neck
hurak hurak~dig dig
hurak tanoman~dig a grave
hurang anju~less caressing
hurang dibapbap~less beaten
hurang gisi~malnutrition
hurang marbisuk~less wise
hurang santisanti~less offerings
hurang sihil~less loud
hurhur igit~seminal crust
hurje horbo~buffalo livestock
hurje lombu~cattle
hushusna angur~it smells good
husor giling~turn the mill
husor gonting~turn your waist
huta bariba~opposite village
huta eol~movement area
huta mabaor~village washed away
huta pangaranto~migrant village
huta pareman~thug village
huta parende~singer's village
huta sagala~all villages
huting huta~village cat
huting manoro~the cat pounced
huting piaraan~pet cat
hutu buku~Bookworm
hutur hebo~rocking excitedly
hutur ihur~shake your butt
i angsur~in installments
i aoasi~supervised
i balok~at the limit
i boahon~notified
i dadap~touched
i doit~in the sting
i ebati~visited
i endat~sucked
i giling~it's ground
i gussang~shaken
i hudon~in the pot
i jomba~pounced on
i longolongo~in the wilderness
i lonjan~in a lunge
i lontik~chiseled
i lotak~on the plate
i olati~restricted
i ontap~prevented
i pahatop~accelerated
i pahou~stopped
i pandirihon~established
i parboniagaan~in trade
i patimbul~elevated
i pature~fixed
i paturehon~annulled
i piu~twisted
i podomi~slept
i porso~denied
i ramoti~Come on
i simpang~at the intersection
i tiktik~knocked
i tolopi~Approved
ia molo~if
ianakhon abat~century children
ias maridina~clean shower
iba do~he admitted
ibana hamlethu~he's my boyfriend
ibana jaotjaot~he got lost
ibana ma~it's him
ibana mamarentahon~he ordered
ibana mangumpat~he retracted
ibana mararga~he's worth it
ibana pangiburu~he is jealous
ibana patialaon~he fainted
ibana tarhinos~he was exhausted
iboto parompuan~sister
iboto sabangso~compatriots
iburu saotik~a little jealous
ida heu~look lethargic
ida humaliang~look around
ida ma~take a look
idia alona~where is the enemy?
idia nangkohan~where is the slope?
ido dipudi~it's behind
ido ni~that's it
igit baoa~man's semen
igung tolbak~landslide nose
ihotihot ulu~head strap
ihur ganjang~long tail
ihur hoda~horse buttocks
ihur hutur~bouncy buttocks
ihur lombu~cow's tail
ihur medan~butt field language
ihut hamagoan~also lost
ihut manumpahi~come help
ihut marsoara~join in
ijo limut~Moss green
ijo sajati~true green
ijuk sapu~broom fibers
ilik api~fire lizard
ilik halongonan~desert lizard
ilik ponggol~stump lizard
ilik roa~ugly lizard
ilmu maretong~mathematics
imbar hadaianna~the pleasure is different
imbaru bollang~newly literate
imbaru lemes~just smooth
imbaru tarida~just appeared
imbulu habong~wing feathers
imbulu ropang~hair loss
impas bangso~the nation disappeared
impol mata~want
ina bao~mother-in-law
ina dolidoli~boy's mother
ina manubuhon~mother giving birth
inang pangintubu~Mother
inang pardijabu~wife
inang pardijabu~wife
inata pardijabu~wife
inata pardijabu~wife
inata soripada~Mrs
indahan atim~delicious rice
indahan saok~fried rice
indonesiana borngin~the Indonesian word for night
indonesiana tariris~the Indonesian is broken
inganan badia~sanctuary
inganan edang~tourist attraction
inganan margareja~place of worship
inganan maringanan~place of residence
inganan pangunsandean~place of support
inganan paraloan~place of resistance
inganan parbodarian~lodging
inganan parbonjoran~stopover place
inganan parbornginan~lodging
inganan parbornginan~guest house
inganan pardomuan~rendezvous
inganan parhutaan~village location
inganan parsatongkinan~burial
inganan pollat~foothold
inganan posi~sad place
inganan santisanti~place of offerings
inganan tarpunjung~remote place
inganan timbona~high place
ingkon dipaboa~must be notified
ingkon disoroni~must be treated
ingkon do~should
ingkon hopal~must be a plane
ingkon ma~must be
ingkon manggonti~have to replace
ingkon mangoloi~must obey
ingkon marsitandaan~have to get acquainted
ingkon nituhor~must be purchased
ingkon odot~have to press
ingkon pinarade~must be prepared
ingkon rangkak~must be distanced
ingkon rurus~must fall
ingkon tardungdung~must be achieved
ingkon tarpasiat~must be fulfilled
ingot asalna~remember the origin
ingot dalanmu~remember your way
ingot ma~Remember
ingot sipareakan~remember the goal
inong nagaor~mother is confused
insir duhut~grass vines
intan borngin~night jewel
intan rara~red gem
inum alkohol~drink alcohol
inum sajo~just drink
inumma tambarmu~take your medicine
isangisang ginjang~upper jaw
isara dalihan~like a furnace
ise alom~who is your enemy
ise amangamangna~who is her husband?
ise damangna~who is his father?
ise donganmu~who is your friend?
ise hasianna~who is his favorite?
ise langkuponmu~who is your lover?
ise ma~whoever
ise parlakku~who is the perpetrator?
ise pe~anybody
isi abat~there are obstacles
isi alona~there is an opponent
isi dijabum~is it at your house?
isi harbuena~there's rice
isi jabutna~there's a mustache
isi margamu~fill in your surname
isi masalam~there's your problem
isi mudarna~there's blood
isi nonang~content of conversation
isi olle~there is talent
isi panggulmiton~there is movement
isi pining~there are areca nuts
isi pongkot~there is capital
isi rongit~there are mosquitoes
isi ruasna~are there any members?
isi sarupa~there is a barrel
itak lango~plain flour
itak tangan~hand flour
itak topung~flour
itomu amang~your brother sir
itona sadasa~his own brother
jabu alaman~yard house
jabu bonang~thread house
jabu dengke~fish house
jabu deua~god's house
jabu paranginanginan~rest house
jabu parbagasan~interior house
jabu parbonjoran~stopover house
jabu robo~the house collapsed
jabu sopo~slum
jabutna hurang~less mustache
jadi do~so
jadi ma~be
jadima sipargogo~be a helper
jadina di~so it's for
jadina ngail~so it's fishing
jadual paraloan~match schedule
jae binanga~downstream of the river
jae utara~downstream north
jaga diain~watch out
jaga ho~watch you
jaga manggirgir~watch out for shaking
jaga mapultak~watch out for explosions
jaga olo~watch out
jaga patmu~watch your feet
jaga porotan~watch out
jaga ribak~watch out for tears
jaga tarbali~Watch out for contagion
jaga tarlibas~watch out for hits
jago ma~that's good
jago ma~be good
jago ma~be strong
jahahon dibuat~read taken
jahoba habangsa~God is powerful
jahoba lapatanna~jahowa means
jahoba mambias~God hates
jahoba marhuaso~God is powerful
jait ondeng~just sew it
jaksa luat~district attorney
jala haluang~become a bat
jala pambege~be a listener
jalana maraekaek~the road is muddy
jalang laut~sea greetings
jalo holongi~thank you
jaman limutlimuton~ancient times
jaman lompo~past era
jambak nauli~attracts a beautiful head of hair
jambar lung~part of the universe
jambar panggadisan~sales department
jambatan tolping~cliff bridge
jambulan balbal~dreadlocks
jambulan habirhabir~loose hair
jambulan marganjang~long hair
jambulan matutung~burnt hair
jamu antusi~herbal medicine understand
janggola pukul~jambak hit
janjela bilut~room window
janjela hassa~glass window
janjela sompit~narrow window
jaotjaot hita~we're lost
jaotjaot ho~you're lost
jaotjaot ibana~he got lost
jarijari sipanudu~index finger
jarum jait~sewing needle
jarum raiar~screen needle
jas pangoli~wedding suit
jat bosi~iron
jea hangar~famine
jebuna markobun~the fun of gardening
jeges do~that's good
jeges do~good
jeges do~beautiful
jeges hulingna~it sounds good
jeges manghatahon~good to say
jeges saritamu~your story is good
jeges ulaonna~good event
jejeron hamaradongon~order of existence
jejeron sijulejule~social gathering order
jelek jelek~fight fight
jempek pikkiran~short minded
jesus pandaoni~Jesus heals
jesus patoranghon~Jesus explained
jo ditadinghon~previously abandoned
job bagas~Job in
jogal au~I'm tough
joget dangdut~Dangdut dancing
joget tiltal~dancing with joy
jogi rohana~strong will
jogi sihar~strong light
jojak bulung~leaf trail
jolma badia~noble person
jolma badia~pious person
jolma bisuk~clever person
jolma disungkun~people asked
jolma jugul~fool
jolma late~spiteful person
jolma lumpu~paralytic
jolma marpananginangian~people are listening
jolma pangaot~explorer
jolma parbagasan~backwoodsman
jolma parboniagaan~trading person
jolma parsikkola~educated people
jolma purba~eastern people
jolma rampa~nosy person
jolma rara~red people
jolma riar~wild people
jolma sabangso~countrymen
jolma sihahaan~oldest person
jolma tarhona~people are affected
jolmana ho~you're human
jom balok~limit hour
jongir ho~you're cruel
jongir sahali~so cruel
jongirna dirim~cruel of you
jongirna hangoluon~cruel life
jonok dilambung~damping
jorbut sahali~so terrible
jorgong dengke~fish trap
joro ende~song verse
joro tangiang~prayer couplets
joro tuhan~God's temple
josua bou~Joshua smells
josua jat~Joshua is evil
jotjot hapodoman~often fall asleep
jotjot loni~often
jotjot loni~often
jotjot marsaor~socialize often
jotjot mengkel~laugh often
jotjot so~often crashes
joujou bao~calls besan
joujou goarhu~calling my name
joujou tondi~summon spirits
juang alo~fight against
juara paraloan~competition champion
jugul laut~sea rogue
jugul sahali~so stupid
juit jungkat~evil mischievous
juji lilu~perverted gambling
juju ma~direct it
jujung timbo~uphold
julluk matana~poke his eyes
julu binanga~upstream
jumpa botari~meet in the afternoon
jumpa pangalusina~see the answer
jurus tolap~powerful move
jus marjogal~juice freezes
justeru rarat~it actually spreads
kabupaten godang~many districts
kabupaten hami~our district
kaen jeges~beautiful fabric
kaen tiopan~handle cloth
kalas nabalga~big class
kalas portibi~world class
kambang bagak~beautiful flowers
kambona baltung~testicles
kambona haurakon~pubic shaft
kambona pira-pira~penis
kambona rungkung~neck stem
kambona tobal~thick stem
kangkang kangkang~jaw jaw
kanji dimengerti~kanji nian
kanji ho~your starch
kanji parhorasan~safety starch
karejo ringgas~work diligently
karejohonma asi~do it darling
karejohonma oma~do it mom
karejohonma sadasa~do it yourself
karejohonma ulaulam~do your work
karejoi angkula~sport
kareta alogo~wind train
kareta perak~silver chariot
kareta so~the motorbike broke down
kariting bohina~pouting
karo nini~great-grandfather's language
karosi sipajagarjagar~ornate chairs
karsis haborhaton~departure ticket
karton tihas~used cardboard
kartu riar~wild card
katua lumban~village head
katua panurgasi~Chief Executive
katua tarsongon~chief executive
kising rongkap~soul mate candidate
kobun pasupasu~blessing garden
kode panganon~food stalls
kombur balga~big bullshit
kombur martata~laughing nonsense
kopi lakku~best-selling coffee
kota bariba~opposite city
kue boroti~block cake
kue hirang~basket cake
kue lampet~soft cake
kue lampis~layer cake
kulit sona~sona tree bark
laba amangamang~lucky husband
labilabi mohopan~hot worms
lada hutu~flea pepper
lagut tu~attached
laho mane~Go
laho mardalani~traveling
lakku tonggi~sold out
lalang hi~livestock fertilizer in my pasture
lali birong~black Eagle
lali bontar~White Eagle
lalu holong~already fall in love
lalu pikkiran~stress
lalus tambing~attitude
lam abak~increasingly prosperous
lam dimpos~increasingly solid
lam holong~increasingly in love
lam manghorhon~increasingly impactful
lam pabiding~increasingly withdrawn
lambas roha~Be patient
lambat sakti~sacred object
lambok ari~cool
lambok ateate~like
lambok marpangalaho~gentle behavior
lambung haminjon~next to incense
lambung siamun~right side
lamot lamot~smooth smooth
lampak bolis~devil's cover
lampak bunga~flower petals
lampak kalapa~coconut fronds
lampak mata~eyelid
lampak pisang~banana stem
lampis baja~armored
lanang nai~wet ones
langit mabola~the sky split
langka hambirang~left step
langka siamun~lucky
langkuponmu ma~your mistress
lanok ijo~green fly
lanokna balga~the flies are big
lansim igungna~sharp nose
lante silbak~cracked floor
lao edang~go on a picnic
lao lansung~go traveling
lao martolu~go three
laok dohot~join with
laok hais~mix it up
laok lamuk~mixed up
laos etong~let's count
laos hupangido~I did
laos i~precisely
laos manghobas~then clean it up
laos nasai~that's how it is
laos sega~it's indeed broken
laos siparbagaon~it's a mainstay
laos teni~it's true
lapa lapa~surgical surgery
lapak dolok~mountain footprint
lapak lapak~the sound of a slap or blow the sound of a slap or blow
lapak martarombo~the sound of a slap or blow being spoken
lapatan ambang~light meaning
lapatan apus~meaning of wipe
lapatan ditogu~meaning guided
lapatan ditonun~meaning woven
lapatan haluang~meaning of bat
lapatan logam~metal meaning
lapatan lunjung~meaning oval
lapatan ranum~the meaning of ripe
lapatan rojanon~meaning of dysentery
lapatan sininta~meaning requested
lapatan sipajagarjagar~meaning of decoration
lapatan sisingamangaraja~meaning of Singamangaraja
lapatan sopo~meaning of barn
lapatan tumpal~meaning of crown
lapatanna asi~it means darling
lapatanna bulu~the use of bamboo
lapatanna sisir~it means goosebumps
lapati nipi~dream interpretation
lapik bingkas~base base
lapik marminggu~place of worship
lapik meja~table cloth
lapik sihol~the language of longing
lapo godung~store building
lapo sagala~all cafes
lapo sirarion~discussion cafe
lapuk ma~it's rotten?
las roha~cheerful
las roha~happy
las roha~cheerful
las roha~like
lasak hepengmi?~Can't keep your money quiet?
lau guna~the genie causes the eclipse of gunas
lea insak~despicable
lea pogos~destitute
leak ho~your behavior
leak lakkudo~her behaviour
leakmu on~this behavior of yours
leangleang targotap~the kite is broken
leat ni~apparently
leat ni~thereby
leat ni~apparently
leheng ho~you're stubborn
leheng jahoba~God's character
lehonma hagogoon~give me strength
lehonma parungkilon~give up the struggle
lehononhu di~I give it to
lehononhu pigapiga~I'll give you some
lele da~chase it
leleng nirohahu~in my heart for a long time
lenga begu,~neglectful ghost
lengket ulaulana~his work
lete gararan~chase deposit
lete la~chase him
liang paspas~I'm shocked
ligat pistar~expertly skilled
ligat uli~beautiful agile
lihi do~slim huh?
lilit sen~buy currency
lima halobian~five privileges
limut ambar~pond moss
limutlimuton ingani~ancient inhabited
linggoman jahoba~God's protection
lingkang utang~paid off
lingkitna marsuga~the skin is prickly
lintong bagas~deep lake
lintong juo~sperm pond
lintong uarna~Telaga Warna lake
lintun ho~you run away
lintun jabu~run away from home
lintun sajoma~just run away
loakon sasintongna~true stupidity
loas guru~allow the teacher
lobangon bingkas~basic toothless
lobar birong~black monitor lizard
lobi marapiapi~more spirit
lobi tinggil~more responsive
lobian tuhan~except God
loja dirim~are you tired?
loja elek~tired please
loja maol~hard work
loja martani~tired of farming
loja sadasa~tired myself
loja simalolonghi~my eyes are tired
loja talu~tired of losing
lok ma~up to you
lokma disi~so be it
lokma isi~so be it
lolo diantusi~wishes are understood
lolo ma~I want it
lolo ngolu~life's will
lombu bagas~inner ox
lombu bangkaran~pregnant cow
lomo alit~likes to be complicated
lomo dipuji~likes to be praised
lomo gait~like to have fun
lomo mandoltuk~likes to hit
lomo mangan~likes to eat
lomo manggomgomi~likes to dominate
lomo margait~likes to be funny
lomo margere~likes to joke
lomo marolahraga~likes to exercise
lomom buat~you like to make
lomom ma~you like it
lomomma musem~you like it too
lompa lomang~cook lemang
lompalompa tabo~delicious food
lompalompana tabo~the food is delicious
lompan joring~jengkol side dish
lompan sambal~chili sauce
lomuk sahali~very tame
londong tolon~joke I swear
longo tangkas~definitely quiet
lonsam bintang~number of stars
lopeng ma~hit it
losok huulahon~I'm too lazy to do it
losung amporik~dimple
losung hurumna~his dimples
lotak ido~lotak is
luam mata~gnarly
luangon on~this shit
luat julu~upstream region
luat nasional~national territory
luat opat~region four
luat parbolatan~border area
luat raja~king's territory
lubang tena~the hole
lubangni te~anus
lubuk juo~sperm duct
luhut bilut~all rooms
luhut dibapbap~everyone was beaten
luhut dihatahon~all spoken
luhut diolopi~all approved
luhut hubolus~I missed everything
luhut hubuat~I took it all
luhut margait~everyone is funny
lulu tohap~look for rewards
luluan dohar~looking for luck
lului nomor~look for numbers
lumba barang~goods racing
lumba lumba~racing racing
lumba marlumba~racing racing
lumban tarpunjung~remote village
lumbung eme~rarely rice
lumbung jea~rarely reinforcements
lumpat tembok~wall jump
lungun malungun~sad to miss
lungun tompa~silence
lungunan parungkilan~loneliness, sadness
lupa handit~forgot to pick up
lupa hatana~forgot the language
lupa mambahensa~forgot to make it
lupa mameakhon~forgot to put
lupa manongos~forgot to leave it
lupa pakansi~forget to go on holiday
lupahon kedanmu~forget your best friend
lupahon lungunmu~forget your sadness
ma dasi~it's a tie
ma labu~come together
ma lasak~I can't keep quiet
ma sisir~it's goosebumps
maap ma~sorry
maaphon bangkohu~forgive my behavior
maaphon bohihu~forgive my face
maaphon halupaon~sorry for forgetting
maaphon pardagingon~forgive you
maapma olo~I'm sorry
mabalu salelengna~widowed forever
mabola rohangku~my heart is split
mabusuk hosom~dull rot
madabu holong~far away love
madekdek ateate~pity
madekdek iluna~sad
madekdek iluna~cry
maen pungkul~play marbles
maga panesa~merciful
maga timbo~supreme
magigi damang~disgusted kid
magigi huhilala~disgusted I think
mago pareso~lost control
mago piapia~kidney loss
mago rohana~dazed
magohon mirdong~relieve stress
magohon mudarna~the blood is gone
mahal mohop~expensive hot
mahilolong torus~keep delaying
makam sakti~magic band
mali tondi~startled
mali tondi~surprised
malim boasa~convert why?
malim malim~priest priest
malim tete~the priest defecates
malluga bagas~rowing deep
malluga solu~rowing a canoe
mallumpat handang~jump the fence
malo mangalualu~good at complaining
malo martongkar~good at fighting
malua bene~relax
malua holang~remove the hose
malua jalo~accept it
malua mi~you're free
malua pareso~out of control
malua tondi~let go of your soul
malungun satangkirisap~missed it for a moment
mamahe doton~wearing a net
mamahe gota~using rubber
mamak bolak~wide width
mamak sompit~narrow width
mamak tanggurungna~wide back
mamalang hadumaon~hinder prosperity
mamalu lonseng~ring the bell
mamanghulingi jolma~greet people
mamanghulingi lamot~say hello gently
mamanotnoti aek~looking at the water
mamanotnoti bohim~looking at your face
mamarengkeli aha~laughing at what?
mamarengkeli aha~laughing at what?
mamasang api~set fire
mamasang pinggol~ears
mamasang poto~put up a photo
mamasumasu dipasupasu~bless blessed
mambahen ahu~made me
mambahen doho~make honorable
mambahen hatorangan~describe
mambahen muruk~Miss
mambahen nengel~make deaf
mambahen parasingan~make a difference
mambahen sonang~encouraging
mambahen sonang~leave
mambahen tahi~determined
mambahen tuptup~make decision
mambakbak ho~let you go
mambalut dirina~wrap himself up
mambalut panganon~wrapping food
mambaritahon hata~preach the word
mambaritahon hatam~preach your word
mambatu manghobas~help clean it up
mambias pinsangpinsang~hates reprimand
mamboan hamonangan~bring victory
mamboan hata~mandate
mamboan pardamean~bring peace
mamboan silua~bring gifts
mambola dua~split in two
mambola tarutung~splitting durian
mambolonghon duhut~remove grass
mamborothon pardonganon~bonding brotherhood
mambuha marminggu~open worship
mambuha tarida~reveal the facts
mambur panganon~scattered with food
mamegang harajaon~Reign
mamereng ahu~see me
mamereng au~see me
mamereng ibana~see it
mamiari harbue~winnowing rice
mamiltik gitarmu~strum your guitar
mamiltik kopi~picking coffee
maminjilhon diri~isolate yourself
mamintor digotap~immediately disconnected
mamintor hamubaon~immediate change
mamintor manggulut~grab it straight away
mamintor maniru~imitate immediately
mamintor mombut~immediately shrunk
mamintor pandokma~say it straight away
mamintor saehon~finish it straight away
mamintor sesa~delete it straight away
mamisat tarus~squeeze breasts
mamohul tangan~holding hands
mamolus handang~over the fence
mamolus hassa~through the glass
mamorluhon pamikkiron~requires thought
mamorso diri~deny yourself
mamorso ondeng~just lie
mampuna poda~have a mandate
mamuhul mamintor~confirm straight away
mamuhul sonang~ensure safety
mamuhung alit~circular circumference
mamuhung tuat~circle down
mamuntarhon halongonan~breaking the silence
mamuntarhon pinggan~breaking plates
mamupusi habadiaon~robbing you of purity
mamupusi tumpal~take the crown
mamurai bura~cursing
mamurai inana~cursed his mother
mamurai katua~cursed at the boss
manaba hau~chop wood
manabur asi~sow love
manabur boni~sowing seeds
manaeki balatuk~climbing up the stairs
manaeki padati~get on the cart
manaeki sa~climb on it
managam hatigoran~waiting for honesty
managihon manutung~share burn
managihon roti~share bread
managihon sumbangan~share donations
manaili dongan~look at you
manaili hu~looking at me
manailihon langit~arrogant
manailihon langit~proud
manajomhon parbinege~sharpens hearing
maname hassang~planting beans
manamuei mangan~entertain a meal
manamuei tamue~entertain guests
manandahon abahan~introduce culture
manandahon diri~introduce myself
manandahon hapangabahanan~introduce culture
manandahon ho~introduce you
manang aha~whatever
manang bagak~is it cool
manang beha~however
manang diseat~or cut
manang imbang~or equivalent
manang leleng~is it long?
manang martarombo~aka speaking
manang mendingan~or not bad
manang tuktuk~or tap
manangani ompan~take care of the bait
mananggo baoang~chop onions
mananggo lombu~slaughtering an ox
mananggo pat~cut off the legs
mananggo tangan~cut hands
mananggo ulu~cut off the head
manangisi pat~lamenting the feet
manangisi ulu~lamented the head
manangko an~steal there
manangko didia~where to steal?
manangko gadong~steal sweet potatoes
manangko hamuna~steal you
manangko rohami~steal your heart
manangkup pinahan~catch animals
manangkup tondi~capture the soul
manangpe manggonti~or replace
manaon naporsuk~suffer
manaptap tangan~wash hands
manapu gota~quotes sap
manapu lante~sweeping floor
manarehon hatobangon~prepare for adulthood
manaripari binanga~cross the river
manaroso pasisir~attack the coast
manaroso portibi~attack the world
manaruhon on~deliver this
manatahon porang~declare war
mandabu sipaingot~rebuked
mandadap dadap~groping
mandalani hadabuon~experienced a fall
mandalani paredangedang~experienced tourists
mandandan jambulan~braiding hair
mandanggurhon hailna~threw his fishing rod
mandaodao mambegesa~embarrassed to hear it
mandaoni boasa~treat why
mandapothon ho~to you
mandapothon na~get that
mandar horis~keris sheath
mandar mararga~precious scabbard
mandar martani~farming gloves
mandar pabalgahu~oversized sarong
mandar parmossak~warrior's scabbard
mandar poltik~tight sheath
mandar senteng~scabbard
mandar songti~magic sheath
mandasing dagingna~weighing his body
mandasing jo~consider first
mandege huta~visit
mandilat bibir~licking lips
mandilat haurakon~licking genitals
mandilat katua~suck up to the boss
mandiori manulingkit~trace investigate
mandodo agak~guess
mandohoti boruboru~women's participation
mandohoti jojak~follow the trail
mandohoti ringkot~play an important role
mandohoti simor~follow emotions
mandok hata~speak
mandokhon goar~mention names
mandoltuk mamastap~hit slap
mandoltuk ulu~hit the head
mandongani naniolina~cheating on his wife
mandosdos sampuran~mix evenly
manduda baion~pound pandan
manduda bumbu~pound the spices
mandulo sa~visit him
mandurung dengke~fishing
manenganenga hinsat~demonstrate movement
manesa mangsi~remove ink
manesahon hurungan~abolish prisons
manetek tijur~drooling
mangadonghon paraloan~put up a fight
mangadonghon sirarion~hold a meeting
mangadopi ontangan~attend the invitation
mangaduk barita~fix the news
mangaduk masin~repair the machine
mangaehon dahopanmu~feel your embrace
mangagahon mi~make you proud
mangagahon sahali~very proud
mangagam pa~think about
mangagohon sahali~very troublesome
mangagohon uas~relieve thirst
mangahap gasa~feel angry
mangahap lamo~feel cool
mangahap lumbang~feel relieved
mangahap sasadaon~feeling alone
mangahap tahina~feel his intentions
mangain abara~shrug
mangain abarana~shrugged his shoulders
mangain sasude~lift everything
mangain ulu~raise your head
mangaithon bulan~get the moon
mangajar hagogoonhi~train my strength
mangajari togutogu~teaching. bingbing
mangalabu roha~mourning
mangalala imbar~merge differently
mangalala mangalipat~melted and whipped
mangalalushon biraon~sass
mangalalushon sintong~act right
mangalaoshon soso~ignore advice
mangalaosi bangko~breaking customs
mangalap boru~marry
mangalap boru~Marry
mangalap gogo~rest
mangalap hamlet~pick up girlfriend
mangalap jomuran~take clothesline
mangalap tuptup~make decisions
mangalbas harang~hit the rocks
mangalean pangidoan~make suggestions
mangalean sipaboana~signal
mangalehon hatigoran~provide justice
mangalehon haulion~provides beauty
mangalehon roha~pay attention
mangalehon sumbangan~make a donation
mangalele angguk~drive away tears
mangalengsehon dosa~erase sins
mangaligi hagompison~health check
mangaligi sada~check something
mangalithon salaoar~wearing trousers
mangalithon ulos~wearing ulos
mangallang duhut~eating grass
mangallang panganon~eating food
mangallang tubis~eating bamboo shoots
mangalo parenta~against orders
mangalojai hadongan~complicate things
mangalompa bubur~cook porridge
mangalompit tangan~pray
mangalongangi bangko~admire customs
mangalualu aluhon~complain
mangalualu sa~sued him
mangalului hamenakon~looking for comfort
mangalului namarbaju~looking for a virgin
mangalului sibagur~looking for frogs
mangamal parbagason~planning a wedding
mangamparhon hata~announce
mangampir jambu~guava numb
mangan alame~eat dodol
mangan basabasa~eat grace
mangan eme~eat grain
mangan gilok~eat caterpillars
mangan ilik~eat lizards
mangan karejom~eat your work
mangan mongkus~eat greedily
mangan pining~eat areca nut
mangandung lungun~wailed sadly
mangandung mangandung~wailing crying
manganju tanggurung~stroking the back
mangantan gogo~inspect
mangantan roha~guess
mangantusi ma~please understand
mangapian pardijabu~jealous wife
mangapus tanggurunghi~wiped my back
mangapusi andora~rubbing chest
mangarade mangoli~getting ready to get married
mangarade sada~alert one
mangarajumi mulak~reflect back
mangaramoti manuk~raising chicken
mangaramoti parsaoran~maintain harmony
mangaraphon sahalak~expecting someone
mangareap reap~hovering
mangarihon lonsam~have amount
mangarihon suga~has thorns
mangaririt parompuan~propose to a woman
mangarombom tolping~hit a cliff
mangarontan marjogal~frozen
mangarop tohap~hope for reward
mangarorot anak~parenting
mangarorot hurje~caring for livestock
mangarorot ibana~take care of him
mangarti hatam~understand your word
mangarujak haurakon~stabbing the genitals
mangarut boltokna~massage his stomach
mangarut daging~massage the body
mangasangi ari~challenging day
mangasinghon mangatim~but gain
mangaso gamang~rest from fear
mangatasi angkal~beyond reason
mangatasi halenseng~overcome doubts
mangatim halalas~enjoy the joy
mangatim parhorasan~get safety
mangeaki mataniari~chasing the Sun
mangeaki sabiji~chasing a
mangebati mi~visit you
mangendat gogogogo~suck hard
mangendat hian~very interesting
mangengkol sa~cancel it
mangetong ongkos~calculate costs
mangetong torus~keep counting
mangeur banuahu~change my world
mangeur marbinereng~distract
mangga lupahon~please forget it
manggabusi pedan~lie to friends
manggadis hata~liar
manggadis tobu~selling sugar cane
manggalang pangidoan~supports the proposal
mangganti tali~spinning rope
mangganti torus~keep copying
manggantihon hahundulon~replace position
manggarar sinamot~pay dowry
manggerdek elek~woo
manggiothon roha~exciting
manggirdak indonesia~advancing Indonesia
manggirgir daging~body shaking
manggirgir dilana~shaking his tongue
manggomgomi portibi~Bataks rule the world
manggonti ban~change tires
manggotil gadong~harvest sweet potatoes
manggotil harbue~harvest rice
manggotil igungna~pinched his nose
manggotil sauit~harvest palm oil
manggulut pareso~seize control
mangguruhon diparsiajari~studied, studied
manghabanghon mandera~raise the flag
manghaholongi haholonganna~loves his lover
manghaholongi ho~love you
manghaholongimu sahibulna~love you completely
manghais rajuman~earn a fortune
manghajongjonghon ae~express feelings
manghajongjonghon balage~witnessed the conflict
manghajongjonghon haporseaon~witness faith
manghajongjonghon iman~confession of faith
manghajongjonghon mi~your confession
manghakam ruhut~includes rules
manghaporluhon dirina~selfish
mangharuarhon hepeng~spend money
mangharuarhon juo~secrete sperm
mangharuarhon parenta~issue orders
mangharuarhon uhum~issue regulations
manghasiholi gaitna~miss his jokes
manghatahon pa~said right
manghatai dihatai~talking talked about
manghitir binahenna~it vibrated
manghobas bilut~tidy up the room
manghobas meaman~put away toys
manghorhon pomparan~affect offspring
manghunti pardonganon~uphold friendship
manghurtik badanmu~touch your body
manghurtik sa~touch it
mangihot horbo~tying buffalo
mangingani jabu~occupy the house
manginona sipaduruon~feel isolated
manginsir rarat~creeping, creeping
manginum rasun~drinking poison
mangiran balu~widow hunting
mangiran parompuan~hunting women
mangisi tingki~fill time
mangite sian~intermediary
mangiup sulim~blow the flute
mangkasing hurje~castrate livestock
mangmang gonong~determination
mangmang pambunuon~determination, killing
mangohop roha~heartwarming
mangolap au~against me
mangoli nunga~married already?
mangoloi artinya~obey the meaning
mangoloi hata~said yes
mangoloi mi~obey you
mangoloi pamarenta~obey the government
mangoloi patik~obey orders
mangoloi pinarsinta~comply with desires
mangoloi rohana~obey his wishes
mangoloi soara~obey the voice
mangoloi uhum~obey the rules
mangoluma sapasang~live a pair
mangompa posoposo~holding a baby
mangompashon hosa~exhale
mangonai hauma~regarding rice fields
mangondam torus~keep threatening
mangongkal bondar~dig a ditch
mangongkal holi~dig up bones
mangontang mandohoti~invite participation
mangontang marsada~invite fellowship
mangontapi parbadaan~prevent quarrels
mangontapi samar~prevent infection
mangorui hajahaton~reduce crime
manguhal olap~discuss about
mangula muse~hoe again
mangula tano~hoe the ground
mangulahon bangko~carry out customs
mangumma pardompahan~kiss the forehead
mangunjun manggombar~try drawing
maniktik pintu~knocking on the door
manindang imbulu~afraid
maningkir bagas~drifting in
maningkir ho~are you mourning?
maniop sapu~holding a broom
manipani siahapon~pondering fate
maniru ama~imitate your father
manisia leheng~stubborn human
manisia sogir~dangerous humans
manjadi mara~disaster occurs
manjaha pangkat~read status
manjaha urupi~read please
manjalo hahurangonhi~accept my shortcomings
manjampi tano~form
manjangkit handang~climb the fence
manjangkit tarup~climb the roof
manjeleng bohi~looking away
manjonok ulaon~before the party
manjonok unjun~before the exam
manjorbut bohina~pouting
manjua luangon~damn dodge
manjujui pikkiran~direct thoughts
manjujung baringinna~free
manjujung baringinna~independent
manjullak inana~stabbed his mother
manjulluk mata~eye-catching
manjumpanghon rumang~find shape
manjungjung baringinna~independent
manodo bintang~pointing to a star
manogihon dalanhu~guide my way
manogot amangamanghu~morning my husband
manogot mangula~morning hoeing
manomba api~worship fire
manombus hassa~penetrate the glass
manompahon haholongan~create love
manompang bolus~hitchhiking through
manompang ngolu~living
manompuk pardompahanna~patted his forehead
manomunomu raja~welcome the king
manondang ngoluhu~illuminate my life
manondang roha~illuminates the heart
manorhon dasingan~determine size
manoro hosa~taking lives
manorui hu~come to me
mansai arga~ceremonial
mansai bagak~majestic
mansai dangol~terrifying
mansai leleng~too long
mansai manegai~dangerous
mansai manusai~dangerous
mansai uli~majestic
mansam jogal~like a punk
mansam mansam~various kinds
mansam mara~kind of dangerous
mansam ragam~variety
mansam uarna~various colors
mansintai ho~love you
mansut rohana~his heart melted
mantat buruk~bad consequences
mantat denggan~good results
manuan tahi~intend
manuani omo~grateful for the results
manuhor balanjo~shopping
manuhor mangga~buy mango
manuhor martabak~buy martabak
manuhor situhoron~shopping
manuhor situhoron~shop
manuhor tali~buy ties
manuhorhon karsis~buy tickets
manuk dasip~stacked chicken
manuk hotek~chicken clucking
manuk martahuak~Rooster
manukna ni~that chicken
manulangi mangan~feed
manumbang ende~contribute songs
manumbang mudar~donate blood
manumpa bingkas~form the basis
manumpa leheng~forming character
manundur mi~talking about you
manungkol osang~support your chin
manungkun nasional~national consultation
manunsi bondar~washing the ditch
manuruk tanoman~die
manutung bonar~burning enthusiasm
manutup gallat~cover up
mapisar bola~broke in to pieces
mar gabus~what is the fear of lies
mar rahat~what is afraid of being vicious
mar rodi~what's there to be afraid of?
mara lapatanna~epidemic means
mara lung~natural disasters
mara sahit~epidemic of a disease
marabit bontar~dressed in white
marabur abur~in tears
marabur ilu~cry
maradi karejo~rest, work
maradi ma~stop
maradu hepeng~fight for money
maradu panganon~fighting over food
maradu sere~fight for gold
maraek laos~all wet
maraek maraek~soaking wet
maraekaek adaran~the field is good
maraloalo antus~disagree
maranak muse~give birth again
marangin sipupuron~dead
marangkang anggi~brothers and sisters
maras hinan~be concerned first
maras tu~concerned about
marata mirdong~Gourd vegetables
marata siarum~spinach
marata tubis~bamboo shoots
marbabo duhut~weed the grass
marbabo eme~weeding rice
marbada tarhira~fighting it seems
marbagas roharoha~molest
marbagas roharoha~have an affair
marbagi habangsa~share power
marbagi ondeng~just share
marbangko hadebataon~divine
marbau tanduk~gloomy
marbinereng bajur~careful attention
marbingkas gokhonna~based on his invitation
marbingkas pangimbung~based on desire
marbingkas rujiruji~based on calculations
marbisuk bagas~deep wisdom
marbogasma hamuna~you guys get married
marbogasma ho~get married
marbogasma naung~get married already
marboha bahenon~sincere
marboha bahenon~understand
marboha bahenon~understand
marboha bahenon~willing
marbohi rara~red-faced
marbohi rara~red-faced
marbohi rimas~angry face
marbohi tonggi~sweet face
marbunga nasi~sufficient
marbunga nasi~prosperous
marbunga rohana~his heart blossomed
mardalan ambung~easy going
mardalan sapata~walking karma
mardalani kita~our walk??
mardangka dua~forked
mardeka tongtong~always free
mardingat pa~remind
mardingat parisahon~remember, consider
mardohar ho~lucky you
mardohar mangarihonmu~lucky to have you
mardompak ibana~towards him
mardomu bolon~grand meeting
mardomu hepeng~meeting money
mardomu hunsi~key meeting
mardomu ina~meet mother
mardomu masihol~reunion
mardomu oma~meet ma
mardomu sihol~meeting miss
mardongan saripe~married
mardongan saripe~have a family
mardongan saripe~married
mardongan saripe~marry
mardongan saripe~Marry
mardongan tondi~make friends with spirits
mardos roha~consensus
mardua roha~undecided
mardua roha~hesitant
maremare gorsing~yellow coconut
maretong buhai~counting starts
maretong medan~terrain language counting
margait luhut~everyone's funny
margait musem~joking too
margana au~my surname
marganda arta~increase in wealth
margarar olo~paid yes
margere ai~just kidding
margeregere ibana~he joked
margogoihon haporseaonhu~strengthen my faith
margogoihon holi~strengthen bones
margogoihon parbogason~strengthen relationships
marguna ni~it works
marguru hundul~sitting exercise
marguru tu~according to
marhamaolhon manggohi~prioritize fulfillment
marhata ingkon~force
marhata ingkon~instruct
marhata lomona~say whatever he likes
marhata tundal~slanderous
marhatai ahaon~what are you talking about?
marhatai tarida~talk facts
marhatohohon on~confirm this
marhite sian~Because
marhite sian~therefore
marhite sian~through
marhite sian~by
marhite sian~because
marhitehite hamardekaan~through independence
marhitehite pintu~through the door
marhosa diadopanhu~breathe in front of me
marhosa ganjang~worried
marhosa ganjang~nervous
marhua ho~reach you
marhua ibana~reach him
marhua nuaeng~why now
marhuarar arar~abundantly abundant
marhusip marsuru~whispered orders
marhusor pargolangan~turn your wrist
marhusor utokutok~racking my brain
marhuta sada~leave
marhuta sada~travelling
maribak babana~tear his mouth
maribak hamlet~find a girlfriend
marijur bari~concerned
maringanan i~located at
maringanan tading~reside in
marisap didia~where to smoke?
marjamita hapataran~preach clarity
marjoget joget~dance
marjuang juang~fight fight
markassa an~look in the mirror there
markassa diri~reflect on yourself
markobun jo~garden first
markombur ho~you're talking
marlambas andora~tolerant
marlangkat bontar~fair skin
marlapatan sirsir~means just right
marlas roha~like
marlinang marlinang~beaming
marlinang suang~series
marlobian on~this is too much
marlobian sahali~that's too much
marlobok pusupusu~heart pounding
marlogu hinan~sing first
marlomo roha~rejoice
marlomo sonang~rejoice
marluga hole~rowing
marlungun roha~sad
marmahan babi~herding pigs
marmahan horbo~herding buffalo
marmansam bongka~various things
marmansam buhai~varies from
marmeam pumpe~playing doll
marmeam pungkul~playing marbles
marmeam torus~keep playing
marmiak miak~oily oil
marminggu luat~circuit assembly
marminggu parjolo~first service
marminggu punguan~combined worship
marminggu rampak~worship together
marminggu rea~festive service
marmotor sedan~sedan road
marnabang jabut~shave the mustache
marnabang jambulan~shave hair
marnabang janggut~shave the beard
marnatal hinan~Christmas first
marneang langka~come
marningot ondeng~just remember
marnini marnono~squeaked
marollok hundul~having intercourse while sitting
marolophon hasundaton~celebrate failure
maronjat hosa~hard to breathe
marpahu hehe~too lively
marpahu naboritan~too painful
marpalilung denggan~virtuous
marpangkean dorsun~dressed dirty
marpangulahi roha~Be patient
marparange denggan~behave well
marpinahan babi~raise pigs
marpinahan manuk~raise chickens
marpira mulak~lay eggs again
marpira olo~laying eggs yeah
marragam mansam~many kinds of
marragam sara~various ways
marraungraung di~depend on
marripe muse~married again
marroha buruk~mean bad
marroha ulak~Be patient
marroharoha bagas~have an affair
marruma tangga~marry
marruma tangga~Marry
marrupa boroti~block shaped
marrupa rumbungan~tubular
marrupa tingko~round shape
marsabarma ho~be patient with you
marsabarma holonghi~be patient my darling
marsabarma tongtong~always be patient
marsada pasada~unite
marsada roha~consensus
marsahali sadari~awaited
marsahit lungun~Miss
marsak ditagi~hard to collect
marsak hian~very tired
marsak maol~try very hard
marsak otik~a little too late
marsambola timbangan~split itself into two scales
marsanti balatuk~gather
marsaor aor~mixed
marsaor mudar~mixed with blood
marsi apoi~scold each other
marsi dompak~facing each other
marsi galang~support each other
marsi lotak~hitting each other
marsi mambalanjoi~support each other
marsi mamorsan~carry each other
marsi mangelek~persuade each other
marsi manghorhon~impact each other
marsi manghorhon~interplay
marsi manjujur~blaming each other
marsi marhusip~whispering to each other
marsi martontang~contradictory
marsi pasombuhon~let each other go
marsi patoranghon~explain each other
marsi tarrahut~bound together
marsiajar mallumpat~learn to jump
marsiak bagi~poor
marsiallangan roha~hostile
marsiallangan roha~compete
marsikkola di~attend school in
marsillak kota~sparkling city
marsillam marlinang~shiny shiny
marsineang manghatai~just say anything
marsinta dijabum~make love at your house
marsirang sursar~divorced
marsitiop tangan~holding hands
marsogot boahon~let me know tomorrow
marsogot hulehon~I'll give it to you tomorrow
marsogot husungkun~I'll ask tomorrow
marsogot mangarade~be ready tomorrow
marsogot morana~maybe tomorrow
marsogot pe~Tomorrow
marsogot pinarade~be prepared tomorrow
marsogotma das~arrive tomorrow
marsogotma ni~that's tomorrow
marsomba patung~worship statues
marsonang busbus~relax immediately
marsonang sonangma~have fun
marsurak batinhu~I cheered inside
marsurak tampak~cheered in unison
marsurasura ho~imagine you
marsuru mulak~told him to go home
martahi di~planning to
martambana umur~increasing age
martani eme~rice farming
martapian angur~fragrant bath
martapian buntak~mud bath
martaru ngolu~risk your life
martaru sihol~bet miss
martaru torus~keep gambling
martata amang~are you laughing?
martata baliksa~even laughed
martata suping~smile
martimbanghon mangadangi~rather than wandering around
martolu rap~three together
martonun roha~agreed
martonun roha~one heart
martopap roha~one heart
martopap roha~in accordance
martopap roha~agree
martua panangko~lucky thief
martuani lumbang~thankfully relieved
martuani nari~still grateful
martubi bagak~compete beautifully
martubi lagak~looking handsome
martubi satur~playing chess
martugan jo~switch first
martumba goreng~children and young people do dancing and singing during the fried full moon
martumbur siborok~sprout, tadpoles
martunggaga tu~rebel
marubat ma~get treatment
marudur anture~line up tidily
marudur hamuna~line up you guys
marujung ngolu~death
marujung ngolu~died
marujung ngolu~dead
marujung ngolu~die
marujung ngolu~died
marusaha mallumpat~trying to jump
marusaha mangamoti~trying to protect
marusaha mangelek~trying to persuade
marutok-utok hasangapon~wise majesty
marutokutok hipas~be sensible
masa borngin~night mode
masa pere~free mode
masala boa~common problem
masarakat abak~prosperous society
masi gessor~bickering with each other
masi mambola~divide each other
masi mamborothon~bind each other
masi mangoloi~mutually agree
masi manotaphon~confirm each other
masi manulangi~feed each other
masi mardenggan~make up for each other
masi matampuk~falling on each other
masi pareak~marry each other
masi tongkar~quarrel with each other
masi tumundalhon~back to back
masihol dihaholongi~miss being loved
masihol do~miss him
masin margusting~trimming machine
massari toruk~low income
masuk haehe~come into consideration
masuk jorgong~fall into the trap
masuk lunglungan~marry
masuk migar~enter stale
mata bollang~eyes bulging
mata hirang~ladies man
mata manerbeng~glance
mata momar~wandering eyes
mata nala~eyes light up
mata rambonon~myopic eyes
mata sihapor~grasshopper eyes
mata sina~Chinese eyes
mata tartutup~closed eyes
matana bollang~his eyes bulged
matana momar~his eyes wandered
matana rambon~his eyes are short-sighted
mataniari manondang~the sun shines
mataniari olo~the sun yeah
mataniari tarlonop~the sun has set
mate barangna~the thing is dead
mate hutu~dead lice
mate maup~sink
mate sambola~paralysed
matehon la~turn it off
matompas marobur~dead
matompas marobur~die
matua agar~old dapper
matua paling~senile
matutung ngolu~burning alive
mauli bulung~happy
mauli bulung~rich
mauli bulung~prosperous
mauli bulung~Happy
mauli utus~perfect
mauliate godang~Thank you very much
mauliate juang~thank you fight
mauliate muse~You're welcome
maupma au~I'm dead
maupma hamuna~you guys will die
maupma hita~we're doomed
maupma ho~you're dead
maupma ho~you're dead
mawar inggu~ingugu flower
meam gondang~playing drums
meam sulim~playing the flute
mebat mandulo~visit, visit
medan haithait~galah field language
medan lomom~your favorite field language
medan monggop~hidden field language
medan nengel~field language is deaf
medangedang ho~you wander
mei robus~boiled noodles
mekap pa~decorate it, right?
meme ulihu~my beautiful mother
mene uluan~OK Commander
mengendos bearbear~anal intercourse
mengendos manampung~jump
mengendos torus~keep having sex
mengkel suping~smile
mengkel tiltal~laughed with joy
mentalna maol~his mentality sucks
merdep matanghu~sleepy
meret mussat~move move move
mersep binanga~the river dries up
merung marniang~emaciated
metmet basir~small glass
metmet matana~small eyes
metmet ruangna~the hole is small
mida lehengna~see his behavior
mida pangalahona~see his behavior
migar balimbing~starfruit acid
migar ma~it's trite
minggu huhilala~week I think
minik paredangedang~adventurous boy
minut paopathon~fourth minute
mira bohi~happy
mira bohi~cheerful
mirdong binahenna~it creates stress
mirdong jahana~dizzy reading it
modom huling~sound sleep
modom salomona~sleep as he pleases
modommu bebe~you sleep soundly
mogap roha~Confused
mohop panggul~hot ass
mohopan au~I'm hot
mohopna ari~hot day
mohopna mandoit~the heat was intense
mokmok lapuk~rotten fat
molo arian~during the day
molo boi~perhaps
molo jonok~if it's close
molo maol~when it's difficult
molo naeng~if you want
molo pala~absurd
molo pala~while
molo pe~if at all
molo tung~if at all
molo tung~though
mombut ibana~he chirped
mommon ho~your snot
momos daging~Healthy
momos hadirionna~firm stance
mompo bara~enter the cage
monang malua~win free
monang martaru~win gambling
monangdo ho~did you win?
monding bagak~died beautifully
monggop dalan~hide the way
montan bana~pregnant
morana tanda~like you know
moro maridi~if independent
morongorong marngaik~complain, bark
moror diida~dizziness
morot hehe~move swiftly
morot pareakhon~moving towards
mosok jorbut~burnt horribly
mosok margara~scorched red
mosok mosok~charred
motor beha~how about the car
motor samansam~similar vehicle
motor sedan~saloon car
motor so~the motorbike broke down
motorna gok~the car is full
muap hoda~smells like horse
muara binanga~estuary
muara ida~estuary see
muara sada~estuary one
muatan salak~salak load
muda dope~young again
mudar losok~lazy blood
mudarna manghatai~the blood speaks
mudu diri~take care of yourself
mula mangalangka~early steps
mula taon~since
mulai luntur~starting to fade
mulak disaritahon~disappointed again
mulak edang~going home on a trip
mulak halupahonon~forgotten again.
mulak markobun~go home gardening
mulak tondina~aware
mulak usehon~spill it home
mulakma ho~go home
mulana parsirangan~Initially divorce
mulana tonggi~sweet at first
mulia hasudungan~noble lover
mullop lonong~appears and sinks
munik holonghi~I think my darling
munik mulak~thinking about going home
muningan dainangi~my mother asked
munsung ho~your snout
munsung horbo~buffalo snout
mura asi~it's easy darling
mura diela~easily influenced
mura targitik~sensitive
musang inam~very old (regarding something that is old, for example your mother's wine
musang inangna~very old (regarding something that has been around for a long time, for example his mother's wine
muse dilompa~being cooked
muse disuba~try again
muse hansar~I've got diarrhea again
muse harom~sinking again
muse hundul~sitting
muse hundulan~sitting still
muse manangisi~still lamenting
muse mangaligi~checking again
muse mangulahon~still working
muse marhua~what are you up to?
muse parhobason~still preparing
muse patoranghon~explaining again
muse pe~later
muse sir~passionate again
musem marhusip~also whispered
musik buhai~music starts
musik mardolondolon~harmonious music
musik pir~loud music
musim moltikoltik~dying season
mussat lapo~change shop
musu bolis~anti-satan
musu parsintaan~anti-romance
muta manseret~vomiting diarrhea
mutik kalapa~coconut pistil
na baja~the tree whose sap is made black
na boho~which is satisfying
na botang~the dashing one
na dangaron~dry
na diahap~experienced
na dibahen~which is because
na dibuhuli~which is determined
na didapot~obtained
na didungdung~achieved
na dihabiari~which is feared
na dilopokhon~which takes priority
na diparateatehon~that is noticed
na diparsinta~which are desired
na dipatupa~which is served
na disurat~written
na ditahi~planned
na dituriturihon~which is told
na halupahonon~the Forgotten
na himpal~which is intact
na holangna~which is far away
na huasi~whom I love
na huboto~that I know
na huguret~that I wrote
na hujalo~which I received
na huparsinta~what I asked for
na hupasangap~whom I respect
na ingol~deaf
na ingol~deaf
na jolo~formerly
na jolo~Formerly
na jolo~ancient
na jongir~which is scary
na juljul~stand out
na lahang~the greedy
na lengket~the good one
na lompo~the past
na mabalu~who is a widower
na mamalang~which hinders
na mamatehon~which is deadly
na mamboan~carrier
na mambongoti~who inhabit
na manarita~who are persecuted
na mangalimbe~that tells
na mangalompa~who cooks
na mangarorot~who is nurturing
na manggantihon~which replaces
na manggarar~who pays
na manghaholongihu~who loves me
na mangkorhon~which result in
na mangurupi~who helps
na manorhon~which determine
na marbaju~daughter
na marbaju~who is dressed
na marbisa~the venomous one
na marbisuk~the wise
na margara~which is burning
na marhaporseaon~who believe
na marhite-hite~which is based
na marisi~which contain
na marlinang~radiant
na marpanghorhon~influential
na marsinondang~brilliant
na marudur~who line up
na masa~mode
na mate~who died
na matena~his death
na mingor~the noisy one
na nala~which is lit
na oloma~that's right
na otoan~stupid one
na paboahon~who informs
na palimahon~the fifth
na patut~appropriate
na porot~which is related
na porsuk~languish
na porsuk~miserable
na porsuk~tormented
na rahat~malignant
na rimbun~shady
na sa~as big as
na saguman~the whole thing
na sai~that's all
na satorbang~who are the same age
na sihabiaron~which is feared
na soding~isolated
na somal~formal
na sumolhot~family
na tangging~which is tight
na tangkasna~which certainly
na tompu~which is spontaneous
na tongam~authoritative
na tudung~it's a hood
na tutung~the burnt one
nada boto~knowing tone
nadear marpangalaho~nervous
naeng daldal~will be gloomy
naeng diparhasomal~will get used to it
naeng disurat~will be written
naeng ditulak~will be rejected
naeng hupasae~I'll finish it
naeng mandopang~want to fight
naeng mangkorhon~will result
naeng marsirang~will separate
naeng melos~will wither
naeng pamasahon~will make it happen
naeng pardijabu~will be a wife
naeng posoposo~about to be a baby
naeng pulik~will be separated
naengan on~just now
naengan rame~it's going to be busy
naga sintong~dragon is right
nagara hasadaon~unitary state
nahinaholongan poso~young sire
nahinaholongan raja~the king
nahinan ama~late father
najinouni tua~lucky
najinouni tua~lucky
najuljul huduru~jutting out
nalahang laos~selfish indeed
nama mata~simply
nama utus~just really
namangalap pangoli~bride picker
namanulahon ulaon~protocol
namarbaju batak~Batak virgin
namarbaju pangaranto~migrant girls
namarngingi aruaru~jaw throat
namauli bulung~respected
namauli bulung~rich
namuli imbaru~new girlfriend
namuli utus~those who are married send
nanaeng hamlet~future lover
nanaeng malim~future priest
nanaeng oroan~fiancé candidate
nanaeng pangoli~the bride
nanaeng ro~coming
nandigan habahaba~during a typhoon
nang modomna~is sleeping
nangaetan jahana~tired of reading it
nanget marhatai~speak slowly
nangkin gusar~just gathered
nangkin laos~I forgot
nangkohan dolok~Mountain slope
nangkok argana~price increases
nangkok motor~take a vehicle
nangkok pinggolhu~up my ear
nanialap balga~big lady
nanialap batak~Mrs Batak
nanialap jabu~hostess
nanialap tonggi~sweet lady
naniomo aha~what income
napasadahon bangso~unifying the nation
napinangan niari~Unlucky
napir tahak~brave
napu bara~manure
napu mambahen~fertilizer making
nari bilolangon~still nervous
nari danakna~still young
nari dauk~still soft
nari dilean~still given
nari dipalese~still being resolved
nari gamir~still soft
nari mambur~still scattered
nari mangadangi~still wandering around
nari mangula~still hoeing
nari manungkun~still asking
nari marulaon~still partying
nari naumposo~still a junior
nari ngail~still fishing
nari pasihar~still shining
nari sobu~still fun
nasa musem~, the same size
nasa on~like this
nasida alit~they are offended
nasida mangalimbe~they tell
nasida saoloan~they agreed
nata pe~although
natana apala~in fact it is
natanata loni~tacky at times
natinembakni roha~Meaning
natinujuni roha~Meaning
natinujuni roha~objective
natuatua boni~seed elder
naumbalga hu~my biggest
naung alang~I've done it
naung asalna~it's original
naung bangko~it's a habit
naung bolus~has passed
naung denggal~already tense
naung dianju~has been forgiven
naung dibarukbak~has been destroyed
naung dibongoti~has been entered
naung dibutbut~has been revoked
naung dihangoluhon~has been done
naung dihilala~experience
naung diloplophon~has been entered
naung diolopi~has been approved
naung dipasupasu~have been blessed
naung ditonahon~has been ordered
naung gasa~already furious
naung hatuaon~already old
naung hombang~it's flat
naung hubolus~I've passed it
naung hudok~I told you
naung laos~already forgotten
naung leleng~classic
naung lintun~already gone
naung mandasing~I've considered it
naung mangalap~have taken
naung mangguruhon~have studied
naung martumpol~already engaged
naung mintop~it's gone
naung patimbohu~it's already high
naung pinalolo~has been agreed
naung pinarade~already prepared
naung robo~has collapsed
naung salese~already broke even
naung sataon~it's been a year
naung somal~it's common
naung sungkunhon~I've asked
naung tammat~already graduated
naung tarbege~already heard
naung tarnata~it turns out
naung tudoshon~already matched
naung tunduon~sleepy ?
naung ula~already sold
ndada atikna~it's impossible
ndada botang~not sturdy
ndada daona~not far away
ndada dapotan~do not miss
ndada digabusi~not lied to
ndada diinum~not drunk
ndada diloas~may not
ndada diloas~not allowed
ndada diolopi~not approved
ndada dipardulihon~ignored
ndada diranapi~not responded
ndada dolidoli~not a virgin
ndada haboraton~do not mind
ndada hadongaran~unopposed
ndada hamletna~not his girlfriend?
ndada hutanda~I don't know
ndada lalap~not neglected
ndada leas~not indifferent
ndada lehe~not mistaken
ndada malo~incompetent
ndada mamboan~did not bring
ndada mamekhon~ignore
ndada mamorso~don't deny it
ndada mangalualu~don't complain
ndada mangangguk~don't cry
ndada manjalo~do not accept
ndada marangkup~not paired
ndada maratur~irregular
ndada margogo~not powerful
ndada marguna~useless
ndada marhamlet~not dating
ndada marhepeng~not rich
ndada marhilala~tasteless
ndada marhutik~didn't move
ndada maringanan~not located
ndada marinsak~flawless
ndada marinsak~flawless,
ndada marnampuna~don't have
ndada marolopolop~don't agree
ndada marpanghorhon~no effect
ndada marrindang~not hereditary
ndada martongtang~not contradictory
ndada munggil~not wavering
ndada natingkos~not good quality
ndada nirasahon~not felt
ndada onding~not protected
ndada patabohon~unpleasant
ndada peam~unskilled
ndada pere~not free
ndada pinarsinta~not desire
ndada pinasingot~not reminded
ndada pintoron~not true
ndada punjung~no, be alone
ndada remeng~no fuss
ndada singkop~inadequate
ndada sogir~not harmful
ndada taradu~not overtaken
ndada taratara~not appetizing
ndada tarbege~not heard
ndada tarbonggal~not reported
ndada tarhatahon~unspoken
ndada tarhindat~not lifted
ndada tinailihon~not glanced at
ndada topas~not right
ndang anture~no need
ndang atikma~it's impossible
ndang dope~Not yet
ndang habilangan~countless
ndang hadongaran~unchallenged
ndang hona~spared
ndang hurimpu~I have never thought
ndang isi~there aren't any
ndang jadi~cancelled
ndang jadi~Don't
ndang mabiar~fierce
ndang malo~incompetent
ndang maratur~irregular
ndang mardalan~congested
ndang mardalan~strike
ndang marhepeng~broke
ndang marhepeng~broke
ndang marhutik~didn't move
ndang maripon~toothless
ndang marisi~empty
ndang marlapatan~it's useless
ndang marmusmus~untidy
ndang marsipaidaan~fight
ndang marsipaidaan~hostile
ndang martuhor~free
ndang marutok~brainless
ndang muap~odorless
ndang piga~A little
ndang sadia~A little
ndang salahon~don't blame me
ndang saroha~not of one mind
ndang saut~cancelled
ndang sungguli~unconscious
ndang tarhatahon~unspoken
ndang tarpasidinghon~inseparable
ndang tarputik~not picked
ndang tartuhor~not bought
ndangma dongan~no friend
ndangma holan~not only
nengel ho~you're deaf
nengel pinggolhu~my ears are deaf
ngabe palua~let it go already
ngali damor~soft cold
ngalian mohop~fever
ngalina dolok~cold mountains
ngalina dongan~it's cold, friend
ngangaetan dagingna~body aches
ngatngatan rongit~mosquito bite
ngiar ari~scorching
ngiar mataniari~hot sun
ngingi ganggang~loose teeth
ngingi ropang~teeth fall out
ngingim ma~your teeth
ngingim timbul~your teeth are forward
ngingim ungap~your teeth are rotten
ngingina ganggang~his teeth are loose
ngolu badia~live godly
ngolu manghorhon~impactful life
ngolu marhambang~life thrives
ngolu parkarejo~worker's life
ngolu sajabu~live together
ngolu sasintongna~live properly
ngomngom mi~in front of you
ngorngor marpanganju~slowly give in
ngotngot manosahi~suffocating pain
ni ahaon~what is that
ni apostel~the apostles
ni budak~the children
ni hamletna~that's his girlfriend
ni mamburai~it curses
ni pande~interpreters
ni pangaranto~the nomads
ni panggomgomi~officials
ni parhapistaron~Scientist
ni parhata~that's language
ni parmabuk~the drunkards
ni ruasna~that's the member
ni sarana~that's the way
ni tundal~it's reversed
ni umpasa~that's a proverb
nia holong~give love
nia panganon~give him food
nibagas rohami~in your heart
nidok babami~your mouth says
nihil total~totally empty
nimmu angkang~according to you brother
nimmu jeges~you think it's good
nini mi~your great-grandson
nini parompuan~great-granddaughter
nini tudung~the hood squeaked
ninna ibana~he said
ninna marmarga~he said his surname
ninna teal~he said arrogantly
nipi andal~sweet dreams
nipi mardalan~dream walking
nipi namai~that's his dream
nipina ho~your dream
nipina patimbohu~his dream is high
nirohana ise~whose heart is it?
nomor topik~fractional numbers
nonang boa~general conversation
nonang dolidoli~male conversation
nonang jumpa~talk to you
nonang nonangna~talk about it
nonang sasadari~daily conversation
nonang sonang~casual chat
nonangan borngin~evening chat
nuaeng odoran~now it's your turn
nuaeng solisoli~now change
nunga dapot~achieved
nunga ditutung~it's been burned
nunga lasak~can't keep quiet anymore
nunga mangalaosi~has violated
nunga manggomgomi~has ruled.
nunga mangonjar~has pushed
nunga monding~has passed away
nunga moru~has decreased
nunga pangsiun~has retired
nunga putus~have broken
nunga sae~finished
nunga sahat~achieved
nunga suda~already completed
nunga tung~that's all
nunu asi~whispered darling
obukna sarge~her hair was scattered
odong apotan~south direction
odong maralo~opposite direction
odot potikpotik~Press the button
odot sahali~press once
ojak martandang~officially dating
okema anggo~okay then
olahraga arian~afternoon sports
olahraga paredangedang~adventurous sport
olap bibel~about the bible
olap dalihan~about the institution
olap hamuliaon~about glory
olap job~about Job
olap ngolu~about life
olat ni~until
olat ni~since
olati margait~limit joking
olati marpingkir~limit thinking
oli opat~married four
oli sirang~marry divorce
olle anak~child's talents
olo bala~yeah crazy
olo pintoron~yes, that's right
oloan mi~your wish
olohon aos~do it over and over again
olohon panggulmiton~make a move
olohon salomom~do what you want
oloma batak~yeah Batak
oloma dengkena~want the fish
oloma huhilala~that's right I think
oloma musem~want too
oloma ni~yeah that's it
ombasna nuaeng~the season is now
ombasna sahur~it's time for dawn
ombus imbus~blow, blow
omo manortor~dancing results
omo manurat~recorded results
omo markobun~gardening results
omo panuhoran~purchase results
omo tompa~creation
ompan digagat~the bait is eaten
ompu parsadaan~ancestors
ompung angkiningan~previous ancestors
ompung boru~grandma
ompung boruna~his grandmother
ompung doli~grandpa
ompung dolihu~my grandfather
ompung dolina~his grandfather
on anggihi~this is my sister
on angkangna~this is his brother
on do~here it is
on do~this is it
on donganna~this is his friend
on hamlethu~this is my guy
on lomang~this is lame
on mansogohon~this sucks
on marlobian~this is too much
on oroanna~this is his fiancé
on pe~so
on pe~although
onan sitahuru~week
ondok ende~song rhythm
ondok pusupusu~heart rhythm
ondol hambirangna~steady left
ondol pestana~great party
ondolhon tahim~solidify your intentions
ongkos panongosan~shipping costs
ongkos sohot~wedding expenses
onma goarna~this is his name
onma manisia~this is human
onma tangianghi~this is my prayer
onom manogot~six in the morning
opat kaleng~four cans
orbuk margara~fiery lava
orom do~fasting?
orui parange~reduce temperament
ose motor~break the car
otikotik mardandi~a little sulky
oto au~I'm stupid..
otoan ho~you're stupid
otoman pitolot~pencil shavings
otona dirihu~how stupid I am
ou hallethu~yes my boy
ou hujalo~yes, I accept
ou pandokma~yeah, say it
ou puang~yeah buddy
pa botulna~that's right
pa malo~he's clever
pa punam~it's yours
paagaaga tanduk~against the horns
paandar muse~clarify again
pabalga daging~enlarge your body
pabalgahon roha~encouraging
pabali bolis~cast out demons
pabali manuk~chase the chicken away
pabali pidong~chase away birds
pabandothu ho~your itching
pabenget roham~Be patient
pabiding tangkirisap~step aside for a moment
paboahon tu~inform
paborgo aruaru~freshens the throat
paburbanghon mora~pretend to be rich
pada belit~tied
pada kebun~in the field
pada pailit~fell
pada persimpangan~at the intersection
pada ringan~on the verge
pada undur~postponed
padalanhon pangidoan~make an offer
padang lalis~wander
padang lalis~wanderer
padaohon diri~keep far
padati horbo~horbo cart
padenggan parhepengon~financial verification
padengganhon manimbuknimbuk~improvement increases
padidit angkat~jumping squirrel
padidit ho~your squirrel
padidit lobangon~toothless squirrel
padimposhon biluk~tidying the room
padompak tatapan~make eye contact
padot barani~persistent and courageous
padot sa~he's persistent
padot sigop~persistent and alert
padu pasu~freeze a large plate
paduadua salelengna~sweat
paet ni~it's bitter
paet potir~bitter bitter
paganjang dila~lie
paganjang dila~lie
paganuphon diri~self sufficient
pagodanghon dua~add two
pagodanghon umboto~increase knowledge
pagogo patmu~strengthen your legs
pagunduk baor~welcome
pahatop ho~speed you up
pahatop la~hurry up
pahatop mangulahon~proceed to carry out
pahatophu gumodang~maximum speed
pahean buruk~worn clothes
pahean suhu~expert clothing
pahean tonun~woven clothing
pahean toru~bottom clothes
paherbang bangko~develop habits
pahiandu sajati~true traveler
pahombanghon ampe~spread the mat
pahompu marpungu~grandchildren gather
pahompu pahompum~your grandchildren
pahompu parompuanna~his granddaughter
pahompuhu bagak~my granddaughter is beautiful
pahompuhu pahompuhu~my grandson my grandson
pai usang~to skinny
paiashon harbue~clean rice
paida bohim~look at your face
paida bohina~look at his face
pailahon ho~shame on you
pailahon jolma~embarrassing people
paima ahu~angry
paima haroroanmu~wait for your arrival
paima pamalosan~wait for revenge
painundun nagila~crazy builder
pajagarhon natuatua~respect elders
pajal dengke~fish pond
pajogalhon roha~harden your heart
pajongjong tambak~erect a grave
pajongjonghon dalihan~establishing an organization
pajongjonghon denggan~establish harmony
pajongjonghon punguan~set up a group
pajuju haulion~beauty director
pala dianjurhon~highly recommended
pala diparhambol~very much appreciated
pala doho~very honorable
pala hehe~very lively
pala lakku~very popular
pala mangasangi~very challenging
pala manggugai~very annoying
pala maras~very concerned
pala marlobian~very excessive
pala mura~very simple
pala nagaor~very chaotic
pala tangging~very fast
pala togap~very sturdy
pala tongam~very authoritative
pala tongam~very impressive
pala uas~very thirsty
palang andora~chest bar
palang hau~wooden cross
palas hinan~heat it first
palas indahan~heat rice
palashon roha~encouraging
palashon roha~leave
palimahon anakna~his five children
palito jolo~front lamp
palito pudi~rear light
palito rara~red light
palolohon pardijabu~make a wife
paltappaltap gogo~hard slap
palua au~Let me go
pamaolhon pambege~makes it difficult for listeners
pamarenta indonesia~Indonesian government
pamarenta satempat~local government
pamasahon mansohot~get married
pamasuhon hepeng~money income
pamasuhon hurang~less income
pamasuhon lobi~more income
pamasuk bonana~insert the stem
pamatang parila~shy figure
pamatanghon lindak~my body shook
pambahen ampe~mat maker
pambahen dalan~road builder
pambahen guntur~troublemaker
pambahen hatotong~shocker
pambahen panganon~food maker
pambahen torsa~story maker
pambahenan panganon~food business
pambahenan sa~his actions
pambege balang~loyal listener
pamborhatan bangke~departure of the body
pamborontak las~warm rebel
pambunu hohom~silent killer
pamian olo~save it
pamilian boa~general elections
pamilian nantuari~yesterday's election
pamiu bonang~yarn spinner
pamolusan mudarmi~your blood flow
pamuli anak~marry off children
pamuli baoa~marry son
pamultak bola~divisive
panaekhon tohonan~raise your rank
panangga baro~mangy dog
panangga tunggal~male dog
panangko bonar~spirit thief
panangko jomuran~clothesline thief
panangko kalapa~coconut thief
panangko ni~the thief
panangko panggogoi~rapist thief
panangko ulu~chief thief
panangkup dengke~fish catcher
panangkup hopi~coffee catcher
panaru pangurupion~introduction to service
panataon jolma~person's statement
pandalan songgotsonggot~impromptu walker
pandan misang~civet pandan
pandaoni bugang~vulnerary
pandaoni hasian~beloved doctor
pandaoni lapa~surgeon
pandapot natorop~public opinion
pandapot ugamo~religious opinion
pandapotan otik~minimal income
pandasing haminjon~incense collector
pande bagas~deep
pande buku~scribes
pande mangalualu~complainer
pande nagaor~troublemaker
pande risa~philosopher
pande rundut~tangler
pande sega~junkman
pande suansuanan~plant worker
pande surat~clerk
pande tarup~roofing expert
pande torsa~storyteller
pande tuptup~conspirator
pandidion parbadia~holy baptism
pandok tuarang~popular designation
pandokan janggola~jambak term
pandokan sahur~sahur term
pandokan sohot~terms of marriage
panduda on~this collider
panduduran siaginon~grave
pandungdungion nasida~their achievements
pane balga~big flash
pangajari parhepengon~financial coach
pangalaho hapantunon~politeness
pangalaho hu~my behavior
pangalaho nadenggan~Budi
pangalaho nadenggan~virtuous
pangalehonon pedan~gift from a friend
pangali roha~chill your heart
pangallang eme~rice eater
pangallang sibuk~carnivore
pangalului duhut~grass finder
pangalului hepeng~money seeker
pangalului marbinereng~attention seeker
pangalului sinamot~dowry seeker
pangambe parpudi~final wave
panganon hurje~cattle fodder
panganon pardagingon~physical food
pangaot langit~sky explorer
pangaot lung~space explorer
pangaranto sailaon~migrants with the same fate
pangemor huta~village bandit
pangemor kota~city bandits
pangemor metmet~little bandit
panggadis manuk~chicken seller
panggang arsik~dry roast
panggangan roti~toaster
panggonti andung~substitute for lamentation
panggonti dainang~substitute for mother
panggonti dainangi~my mother's replacement
panghapit baju~clothespin
panghulingi manghatahon~who said?
panghulingi ondeng~anyone
pangiason banda~grave cleaning
pangiburu bongak~great jealous
pangido ahaon~what are you asking for?
pangido alapi~ask to be picked up
pangido daisdais~ask for a brush
pangido dibapbap~ask to be beaten
pangido kalapa~ask for coconut
pangido panumpak~ask for blessing
pangido saribu~ask for a thousand
pangido siluana~ask for a gift
pangido sumbangan~ask for donations
pangido tingki~ask for time
pangidoan holonghi~my darling request
pangimbung diri~self desire
pangimbung marsinta~desire to make love
pangimbungna balga~his appetite is great
pangingani jakarta~Jakarta residents
pangingani rohahi~inhabitant of my heart
pangir laos~wash your hair as well
pangir torus~keep washing your hair
pangiran hotang~rattan hunter
pangiring pangoli~Bridesmaids
pangisi butuha~chitterlings
pangisi roha~heart filler
pangituai masarakat~public figure
panglima anse~Aceh commander
panglima porang~warlords
panglima potang~evening commander
pangoli boruboru~bride
pangoluhon mulak~revive
pangoluhon palito~turn on the light
pangondian diri~self protection
pangondian imbang~equal protection
pangondian marulaon~trial lawyer
panguba miak~oil converter
panguduti ngolu~lifeline
pangukkur harbue~rice measurer
pangullus alogo~wind blowing
pangulu marhitehite~intermediary through
pangulu mi~your intermediary
pangulu rongkap~matchmaker
pangunsandean ngolu~life support
pangurupion anak~children's services
pangurupion baoa~men's service
pangurupion parompuan~women's service
panimpulan taon~closing of the year
panimpulan ulaon~closing event
panipu ateate~feeling cheater
panjaloon mangaririt~proposing welcome
panjangkon arti~benefit recipients
panjangkon tamue~reception
panjar sinamot~down payment dowry money
panogu au~my mentor
panogu dalan~road guide
panogu ngolu~life guide
panolangi marga~clan reserve
panolsolion umbagas~deepest regret
panompang longo~few passengers
panondang ngoluhu~the light of my life
panondur marsurak~the audience cheered
panongosan masihol~Missed delivery
panongosan tarlambat~late delivery
panopano au~my acne
panopano jekjek~naughty acne
panopano manghombar~acne approaching
panortor borngin~night dancer
panortor dalanan~street dancer
panosa buku~book eraser
panotnoti torus~keep looking
pansar bagas~spray deep
pansar godang~squirt a lot
pansar soara~came a voice
pansidungi adongma~the solution is
pansidungi bangko~traditional solution
pansidungi hasuharan~problem solving
pantun hangoluan~courtesy
panudu ari~day indicator
panudu inganan~place indicator
panudu ngolu~live pointer
panudu odong~signpost
panullang jambulan~hair pin
panutungan bangke~cremation
panuturi habonaran~defender of truth
panuturi mi~your defender
panuturi tondong~family defender
panuturi uhum~legal defender
paojakhon malua~Sidi's inauguration
paojakhon raja~inauguration of the king
paojakhon ujiujian~perpetuate the experiment
papan ni~para board
papan reklame~Billboard
papan runsur~surfing board
papeduhon langka~get out of the way
papituhon paopathon~seventh fourth
papungu roha~pay attention
papurgukhon hamoraon~amass wealth
par baja~complement of trees whose sap is made black
par bangso~national identity
par diri~personal identity
par jalang~complementary greeting performer
par sa~his identity
par ugamo~religious identity
parade dangdang~prepare the steamer
paradehon lompalompa~prepare food
paradehon lompalompana~serve the food
paradehon panganon~serve food
paradihon naung~stop it already
paraloan olahraga~sports competition
parang metmet~small machete
parang pambunu~assassin's machete
parang pinsur~sharp machete
parangan bojak~frogmen
parangan hu~my soldier
parangan jumolo~leading troops
parangan tarpillit~selected soldiers
parangan tongtang~combat troops
parangem tudos~your behavior is like
paranggap hagogoon~power guard
paranggap hu~my guard
paranggap huta~village guard
paranggap jabu~caretaker
paranginanginan parpudi~final rest
parantanan eme~rice measurements
parantanan harbue~rice measure
parao tehnik~engineering ark
parasi roha~philanthrope
parasingan pandapot~dissent
parbadaan torus~the quarrel continues
parbagasan parhundul~residential housing
parbiar hape~scared apparently
parbiar hian~really scared
parbiar ni~that coward
parbinotoan haporseaon~knowledge of faith
parbinotoan sa~his knowledge
parbogason diri~personal relationship
parbolatan huta~regional borders
parbolatan nagara~country borders
parbonjoran parpudi~last stop
parbue bagot~palm fruit
parbue balimbing~star fruit
parbue baltung~penis
parbue bortian~fruit of the womb
parbue gambiri~candlenut fruit
parbue garda~penis
parbue gundur~pumpkins
parbue hasapi~lyre fruit
parbue honas~pineapple
parbue lasiak~chili fruit
parbue maraburan~fruit falls
parbue pir~rice
parbue pirapira~testicles
parbue suang~series fruit
parbue suhat~taro fruit
parbue tuak~palm fruit
parbuena balga~the fruit is big
parbuena denggan~the fruit is good
parbuena dobar~the fruit is dense
parbuena tonggi~the fruit is sweet
pardagingon partondion~physical and spiritual
pardalanan bahasa~language journey
pardenggan basa~gift
pardengke hisap~greedy fishermen
pardijabu marsahit~sick wife
pardompahan bolak~broad forehead
pardompahan mamak~wide forehead
pardompahan pardompahan~forehead
pardompahanhu tarhindat~. my eyebrows rose
pardompahanna mamak~his forehead is wide
pardomuan bolon~grand meeting
pardomuan sonang~casual meeting
pardongan saripeon~marriage
pardongan saripeon~wedding
pareak sa~marry her
pareakhon hasea~to success
pareakhon hasuksesan~towards success
paredangedang hinauli~explorer of beauty
paredangedang holong~love explorer
paredangedang holong~love adventurer
paredangedang metmet~little adventurer
pareman jora~repentant thug
parende bongak~great singer
parende denggan~good singer
pareso diri~self correction
pareso dirim~correct yourself
pareso olo~correct it
pargabus do~the liar
pargolangan pat~ankle
pargolangan tangan~wrist
pargomgom harangan~forest protector
pargomgom hatigoran~protector of justice
parhambangon bangko~character development
parhata tulen~native speaker
parhatutas bangso~servant of the nation
parhobas gareja~church officials
parhobas haiason~janitor
parhobas masarakat~public servant
parhobas parpestaan~celebration officer
parhobas sa~his servant
parhobason paska~Easter preparations
parhobason sipanganon~dish preparation
parhundul sainganan~local people
pariama ombun~cloud harvest
parila ho~you're shy
parjahat matua~old villain
parjahat songik~naughty criminal
parjolo mandok~first to say
parkakas dengke~fish equipment
parkakas mangalompa~cooking equipment
parkakas mangan~tableware
parkakas martonun~weaving equipment
parkakas ringkot~essential equipment
parkarejo hauma~farm workers
parkarejo hopal~ship worker
parkarejo kantor~office employees
parkarejo paberik~factory workers
parkarejo risi~unskilled laborers
parkarejo tani~farm workers
parkaro maranak~calving process
parkongsian huriana~fellowship of his people
parmabuk ho~you drunk
parmahan parmahan~shepherd's shepherd
parmanison hoda~horse pellets
parmeaman sulim~flute playing
parmonang rohahi~winner of my heart
parmossak denggan~good warrior
parmossak rekket~racket warrior
paroaroahon dongan~slander
parompuan gasa~the woman was furious
parompuan jongir~cruel woman
parompuan lapatanna~woman means
parompuan paduahon~second woman
parompuan pahompum~your granddaughter
parompuan pailahon~embarrassing woman
parompuan satorbang~women of the same age
parorot posoposo~babysitter
parpadanan dohot~agreement with
parporangan on~this war.
parporangan partondion~spiritual warfare
parpunguan holangholang~togetherness between
parroha pir~drunk
parsadaan malim~priestly community
parsadaan on~this community
parsahatna diharangan~when he arrived in the forest
parsaroan santokin~temporary stop
parsikkola tong~eternal student
parsinuan bulu~Bamboo's biological father
parsoalan ngolu~life problems
parsonduk bolon~wife
parsonduk bolon~wife
parsonduk bolon~wife
partangiang mi~your prayer
partano batoan~fortress
partaonan haleon~lean season
partaonan oltik~dying season
partaonan sa~its season
partobo bontis~nimble customers
partompuran parjolo~first battle
partondion nadenggan~fate
partondion nadenggan~profit
partukkang siparbagaon~top mechanic
partuturan aha~what relationship?
paruarhon diri~free yourself
paruarhon manghaholongimu~free love you
parulan ibana~his actions
parulan mi~your actions
parulan pangkirimon~an act of hope
parumbukhon diri~adjust oneself
parumbukhon harohaon~adjust to your wishes
parungkil parpudi~last warrior
parungkil tuhormu~your dowry fighter
pasadama hami~unite us
pasadama hinan~put it together first
pasagat tempo~satisfy the holiday
pasahat ulos~convey ulos
pasahathon tona~convey the message
pasang bajum~put on your clothes
pasanganhu tarasi~my beloved partner
pasanganhu tarsinta~my beloved partner
pasaut anak~make a child
pasidinghon hatoropon~avoid crowds
pasidinghon marsijalangan~avoid shaking hands
pasilitas situmpak~supporting facilities
pasipasi ae~aftertaste
pasipma panangga~shut up dog
pasir pasisir~coastal beaches
pasir purba~East Coast
pasir utara~North Beach
pasisir lapatan~coastal meaning
pasisir pastina~west coast
paska rampak~Easter together
paso hosana~stop breathing
pasohothon anak~marry off children
pasombu sihol~vent your longing
pasombuhon sibagur~let the frogs
pasondothon langkana~stopped his steps
pasondothon partontangan~stop the debate
pastap ra~slap me
pastap tondina~slap his soul
pastina bagas~inner west
pasu padu~the big plate was frozen
pasuda alom~finish off your opponents
pasuda hatop~finish it quickly
pasuda hepengmi~spend your money
pasuda ma~spend it
pasupasu gokhonna~thanks to the invitation
pat begu~ghost feet
pat palito~lampstand
pat sadasa~own feet
pat tumbuk~feet, fists
patalinga abara~shoulder level
patandahon hamletmu~introduce your girlfriend
patandahon rampak~let me know
patangkas landasan~ensure grounding
patialaon boasa~why did you faint?
patik paopathon~fourth commandment
patimbul patimbul~elevate elevate
patinda manguba~change, change
patmu ringkot~your feet are cute
patmu roa~your feet are ugly
patna mambur~his legs were scattered
patna marmudar~his feet were bleeding
patoguhon ebati~strengthen friendship
patoguhon pardonganon~strengthen friendship
patomburtombur roha~invite
patongonhon tu~match
patongonhon tu~adapt
patophon mangan~wed
patu patik~obey orders
patudu dalan~guide
patuginjang mandohoti~increase participation
patulus dirim~relax yourself
patulus halaoanna~let him go
patulushon halaoanmu~let you go
patung hauma~rice field statue
patung sigalegale~statue of a weak person
patupa sigaret~provide cigarettes
patupahon sada~provide something
pature diri~fix yourself
pature pature~raft raft
paturehon barang~fix things
patut dirimpu~to be expected
patut disuba~worth a try
patut do~is it appropriate?
patut gale~quickly faint
patut mulak~hurry home
patut rame~quickly crowded
patutna ido~that's appropriate
paula sodiboto~dablek
paulak hepenghi~give me my money back
paulak ho~send you home
pauli aha~fix what
pauli surathu~write my letter
pe hujalo~I accept it too
pe marhambang~also developed
pe targotap~was interrupted
peak gale~lying weak
peak marganjang~lying lengthwise
peak pa~put it down
pedan burjum~your good friend
pedan kompak~best friend
pedan margere~friends joke
pedan saparmeaman~playmate
pege hunik~yellow ginger
pege hunik~ginger turmeric
pelean marminggu~worship collection
pelean mi~your sacrifice
pelean panutungan~burnt offering
pelehon pelean~offer sacrifices
perak las~warm silver
perak panginuman~used drinking silver
pere ndada~free no
pesta badia~Holy communion
pesta beta~let's have a banquet
pesta perak~silver jubilee
pestana sadihari~when is the party?
peus portibi~arrogant world
peus roha~arrogant heart
pia mata~want
pia mata~tempted
pidato ali~short speech
pidato dinamarsirang~valedictory
pidong amporik~sparrows
pidong anduhur~turtle dove
pidong harangan~forest birds
pidong jaotjaot~stray bird
pidong rajauali~Eagle
pidong sere~golden bird
pidong tutu~songbird
pidongmu metmet~your bird is small
pidongna tihas~the bird is disabled
pigapiga boni~some seeds
pigapiga onan~several weeks
pikkiran gaor~distracted mind
pikkiran poso~young mind
pikkiranna dorsun~his mind is dirty
pilat amang~dick sir
piltik piapia~kidney centile
pinahan horbo~buffalo animal
pinahan lobu~pig
pinahan patarushon~mammalian animals
pinahan rahat~vicious animal
pinahan ringgarung~deer animal
pinalolo ansiat~made as
pinalolo pangurupi~made a helper
pinalolo sinamotna~as her dowry
pinarade angkup~prepared by
pinarsinta umbagas~deepest desire
pinasa poso~young jackfruit
pinature ni~creation
pinggol bornok~watery ears
pinggolhu mambegesa~my ears heard it
pinggolmu nengel~your ears are deaf
pininta ni~Because
pininta ni~therefore
pininta ni~because
pinsang panghulingi~scolded someone
pintor alusna~honest answer
pintoron au~I'm right
pipi bunsiton~full face
pipi hosom~dull face
pipi hunik~yellow face
pipi marrara~flushed face
pipi mutung~frowning face
pipi panipu~fraud face
pipi pardosa~sinner's face
pipi parmabuk~drunkard's face
pipi rata~flat face
pipi tangkang~shit face
pir baltung~hard penis
pir lonsam~loud (volume).
pir soaram~your voice is loud
pir ulu~drunk
pirapira hoda~horse testicles
pirdo hangoluon~the harshness of life
pirdo hutaku~the harshness of my village
pisang mosok~burnt banana
pisang mosok~burnt banana
pisang tanduk~horn banana
piso raja~king's knife
piso sabi~sickle knife
pispis aek~splash of water
pistar badia~intelligent, noble
pistik hagenoon~breaking point
pistik tohang~threshold point
pitor diida~dizziness
pitung matana~his eyes are blind
poda bibel~biblical mandate
poda bolon~great commission
poda botari~twilight advice
poda dainangi~my mother's advice
poda dia~what teaching?
poda ise~whose teachings?
podoman damor~soft mattress
podoman humutur~the bed swayed
pohulon tangan~fist
pompar sian~derivative of
pongkot duguldugul~knee capital
pongkot hatigoran~honesty capital
pongkot la~capital la
ponji bolis~devil cotton
ponjot ulaon~Busy
ponot aek~waterways
ponot bosi~iron pipe
ponot haporseaon~trust channel
ponot parhosaon~respiratory tract
ponot pasupasu~blessing channel
porang bahasa~language war
porang silonging~silent war
porda amudi~steering handle
porda gupak~machete handle
porda ombak~hoe handle
porhis ni~the ant
porlu dihatahon~needs to be discussed
porlu diingot~keep in mind
porsuk sa~suffer from it
pos dongan~are you sure friend?
pos roham~believe me
pos sibolang~sure striped
posma roham~calm down
poso bagak~beautiful early
poso mardandi~young sulking
posoposona ramot~the baby is safe
pote tumbatumba~liter petai.
poti hassa~glass casket
poti panganon~food box
poto bagotna~photo of the milk
potong lombu~slaughter cattle
puas sian~sparked from
pudun mangolu~snare
pukul sitaonon~hit punch
pukul tembok~hit the wall
pulang sae~finished
pulang sae~blank
pulo jeges~beautiful island
pulos pulos~gyre gyre
pulut ai~noose with latex o...
pulut laho~snare with sap away
pumpe bagak~pretty doll
pumpe sundat~doll failed
pumpe utang~debt doll
puna herbang~have a degree
puna roha~have a heart
puna surung~has advantages
punahu metmet~mine is small
pungga parang~sharpen the machete
pungkul bolon~gadang hours
pungkul julu~upstream marbles
pungkul on~this marble
pungkul ondol~seven o'clock
pungkul sumbaiang~prayer hour
pungkul tanganhu~my watch
pungu lompanna~complete with side dishes
pungu parkir~complete parking
punia adong~oath
punjung satangkirisap~be alone for a moment
punsa gombar~image pattern
puntar basir~broken glass
puntar pinggan~broken plate
purun api~light a fire
purun luat~turn on location ?
pusat jamita~the essence of the sermon
pusat masala~the core problem
pusat sian~the essence of
pusok boruboru~woman's navel
pusok harajaon~center of the kingdom
pusok pamarenta~central government
pusok parboniagaan~trading center
pusok rea~highway center
pusok tudos-tudos~comparison center
pusok ulu~center of head
pustaha hatorangon~certificate
pustaha hita~our library
pustaha kareta~motorbike letter
pustaha manurat~correspondence
pustaha soara~sound library
pustaha soarana~sound library
pusuk bulu~bamboo shoots
pusuk semara~spruce shoots
pusuk tudos-tudos~peak comparison
pusupusu hu~my heart
putik dua~quote two
ra angsur~want to pay in installments
ra bolon~want to stay up late
ra dibongoti~want to enter
ra ditangiang~want to pray
ra doit~want to taste it
ra mallumpat~want to jump
ra mamodai~want to advise
ra maningkir~want to visit
ra mansoadahon~want to be disobedient
ra martagi~want to collect
ra merung~want to be thin
ra nuaeng~want now
ra ombak~want to hoe
ra pakansi~want to go on holiday
ra pamate~want to kill
rabi aha~slash what
radot anggim~take care of your sister
radot angkangmi~take care of your sister
radot di~diligent
radot di~persistent
radot dilam~watch your tongue
radot hadameon~keep safe
radot hurje~look after livestock
radoti dengke~keep fish
radotima parsorionmu~pay attention to your situation
ragam indonesia~Indonesian variety
ragam manisia~human kind
ragam mekap~decoration
ragam pahean~type of clothing
ragi sa~its pattern
ragini ulos~pattern
ragini ulos~motif
rahat rahat~vicious vicious
rahat sahali~very fierce
rahat situtu~really vicious
rahotrahot haurakon~pubic veins
rahutan hita~our bond
rais lombang~steep ravine
raja ihutan~head
raja parbajo~king of robbers
raja tongam~authoritative king
rajana manuk~the king of chickens
rajana margoar~the king is titled
rajana parbue~the king of fruit
rajana ulu~the king is the head
rajuman botari~twilight fortune
rajuman jeges~good fortune
raksa ajiajian~witchcraft
raksa beuk~invulnerability
raksa haholomon~dark science
raksa hurung~bracket science
raksa jorgong~trap science
raksa rasun~toxicology
rambon bagas~deep-sighted
rambon bodari~late afternoon
rambonon mata~nearsightedness
rambu hum~mighty guide
rambu tihas~handicapped guide
ramot amot~safe protection
ramot deang~good luck lady
ramot delmek~safe and sound
ramot dididi~happy baptism
ramot martumpol~happy engagement
ramot nasogotan~enjoy Subuh
ramot oroan~happy engagement
ramot parbogason~happy engagement
ramot pariama~happy harvest
rampa hian~very nosy
rampa sahali~how nosy
rampak barangna~the same thing
rampak dangol~just as miserable
rampak hundul~side by side
rampak pargabus~same as a liar
rampak rapma~you're the same
rampak sadu~with carriage
rampak uluan~with the leader
ramuan pardijabu~wife's recipe
rangging dangka~caught in a branch
ranggiting asal~bees from
ranggiting hau~carpenter bee
rante dosa~chain of sin
rante panganon~food chain
rante rungkung~neck chain
rap haulionna~with her beauty
rap marrentaan~together simultaneously
rap sude~at a time
raphon ho~with you
raphon ho~with you
raphon ibana~with him
rapma bagakna~just as beautiful
rapma uli~just as beautiful
rara bohihu~my face red
rara hurumna~her cheeks red
rarak soara~hoarse voice
rarat barita~spread the news
rarat duhut~spreading grass
rarat ontangan~distribute invitations
rasun bagudung~rat poison
ratu bolus~cross queen
reap reap~kite
remeng ho~you're fussy
repot ahaon~what are you busy with?
repot manangani~busy taking care of it
resiko suhul~earthquake risk
reso aha~check what
reso manteri~check the orderlies
reso rapan~check the trash
reso tuhe~check benchmarks
ressok menak~quiet noise
retes jambatan~fragile bridge
ria balga~great deliberation
ria bangko~traditional deliberation
ria hita~our deliberations
ria mangonai~deliberation regarding
ria nasional~National Conference
ria ondeng~just deliberation
ria runding~deliberation
ribakhon bohina~tear his face
rimas maos~just angry
rimas naniolina~angry with his wife
rimpa hita~us in unison
ringan haholongan~happy lover
ringan tubu~happy to be born
ringgarung aek~water deer
ringgarung roha~Roha deer
ringgas roha~diligent
ringgas sikkolana~work hard at school
ringgas tangiang~pray diligently
ringkiringki medan~cross-country
ringkot ginjang~cute top
rio mengkel~rarely laugh
rio ula~rarely sells
ripas aha~what?
ris manganna~enough to eat
risa batak~Batak philosophy
risa denggan~good philosophy
risi bahasam~your language is harsh
risik digagat~eat carefully
rittik lilu~crazy perverted
ro hadumaon~prosperity arrives
ro ma~come
ro pangalehonna~the gift comes
ro ringkot~appear important
robo pa~collapsed right?
rodi dia~up to where
roha bolak~broad heart
roha buruk~lazy
roha ditatap~the meaning of being stared at
roha lalang~This means livestock fertilizer found in pastures
roha nabisaon~wicked
roha namarpambuat~selfish
roha ngorngor~restless heart
roha niba~my mind
roha ranum~I mean ripe
roha retes~fragile heart
roha saset~sachet meaning
roha umbagas~deepest heart
rohahi marsigorgor~my heart is in turmoil
rojanon ma~it's dysentery
rompu tuju~weaving aim rattan
rongang ringkiringki~vagina
rongkap abak~prosperous soul mate
rongkapni tondi~choice
roti lampis~sandwich
ruang alogo~vent
ruang amburuk~anal hole
ruang habalian~escape hole
ruang haurakon~pubic hole
ruang lung~space
ruar panagaman~unexpected
rudang andal~beautiful male flowers
rugi pauli~repair loss
ruhut paho~moral rules
ruhut tarpinjil~separate rules
rujiruji hagogoon~strength calculation
rumang boa~general description
rumang diri~personal picture
rumang rumbungan~tube shape
rumang suga~thorn shape
rumbungan hepeng~save money
rumondang bulan~moon
rungka bada~battle
rungkunghu balinsu~I sprained my neck
rupana dia~where's his face?
rupana nata~real existence
rupana rumang~form
rupana sa~its form
rupana suman~the face is similar
rupana tudos~his face is like
rura partangisan~grave
rura partangisan~burial
rura tombak~forest valley
sa amburuk~her rectum
sa damor~so soft
sa huang~he's pissed
sa manompang~he's hitching a ride
sa margahu~it's my surname
sa mommon~his nose is snotty
sa panesa~its an eraser
sa sapot~a shoe
saahap gege~it feels crushed
sabalga aha~how big?
sabarma anaha~be patient my son
sabashon modommu~satisfy your sleep
sabiji hasalaan~A mistake
sabiji jea~a reinforcement
sabiji margoar~a named
sabiji pandungdungion~an achievement
sabiji singkor~a crisis
saboi sa~as much as he can
sabung sabung~gunpowder gunpowder
sabungan tolor~mother egg
sada abat~a century
sada boruboru~one wench
sada halak~a
sada halomoanhu~my one wish
sada masa~solo mode
sada podoman~one bed
sada roha~one heart
sada roha~seia
sada roha~agreed
sada seat~one piece
sada suang~one series
sada suap~one mouthful
sada sulang~one mouthful
sada tonahu~one of my messages
sadalan ni~along that line
sadalan sagunjur~in line with agreement
sadao tupa~the farthest possible
sadia asam~what value
sadia bada~what's the difference?
sadia bajuna~how many clothes?
sadia dapotmu~how much do you get?
sadia dasingan~how many scales?
sadia gararan~how much deposit
sadia habobongot~how much does it come in?
sadia holangna~how far is it?
sadia lonsam~how many
sadia rambutan~how many rambutans?
sadia sajom~how many hours?
sadia tuhormu~how much is your dowry?
sadia umurna~how old is she
sadihari dapotna~when will you see him?
sadihari dibagi~when to share
sadihari hapuloan~when is it lonely?
sadihari hasasahat~when will it arrive?
sadihari marlumba~when to compete
sadihari martumpol~when are you getting engaged?
sadihari marulaon~when to party
sadihari monangdo~when will you win?
sadihari pestami~when is your party
sadihari sanga~when you have time
sadihari ulaonna~when is the event?
sae marende~finished singing
saehon luhut~Get it all done
saep mangelek~patiently persuading
saep suba~be patient and try
sagal ibana~he's full
sagala raja~all kings
sagang parbornginan~quiet inn
sagogo harang~as strong as coral
sahalak ma~be alone
sahali sude~at a time
sahap aha~what stamp?
saharan rajuman~dam of fortune
sahata sahata~agree
sahatop ido~Is it as fast as that?
sahatop ni~that fast ?
sahatop pane~as quick as lightning
sahatopna sohot~get married as soon as possible
sahit piapia~Kidney illness
sahitna posa~the disease is serious
sai dihaholongi~very loved
sai tibu~hurry up
saihur gaja~an elephant
saihur halode~a donkey
saihur hora~a ferret
saingkon sa~should
sairing sadalan~hand in hand
sakku baltung~scrotum
sala dipareso~wrong corrected
sala manghatahon~misstate
sala odot~wrong Press
sala suratan~writing wrong
sala tinggil~wrong response
salahmu mauliate~regards. Thank You
salamat maradian~have a good rest
salamathon matua~save aging
salang tingki~interval
salaoar bagasna~his underwear
salaoar habang~fly color
salaoar rinsan~ripped pants
saleleng marabatabat~for centuries
salese olo~break even yes
sali panesa~borrow an eraser
salin gabe~so different
salin maridi~differentiated bathing
salin taruk~differentiated cough
salomona ondeng~just whatever you like
salpu bolus~traffic
salpu margareja~after worship
salpu patialaon~then fainted
salpu pe~already done
salpu tarporot~then got stuck
saluhut portibion~world
samansam anak~some kind of child
samansam bara~a kind of chocolate
samansam gomal~some kind of adhesive
samansam panganon~a kind of food
sambok hoda~horse whip
sambola siamun~to the right
samisara purnama~name of the seventh day of the full moon
sampe bunga~mature
sampe bunga~dirty
sampe rudang~youth
sampe rudang~virgin
sampohul hatigoran~a handful of honesty
samponggol balansan~a piece of shrimp paste
samponggol bangke~piece of carcass
sampulu belek~ten cans
sandang ibana~she's pregnant
sandang parjolo~first pregnancy
sandang sadasa~pregnant herself
sandang siminikna~pregnant with his granddaughter
sandar nagodang~a lot of surup
sandok portibi~the whole world
sang pandaoni~the healer
sang panudu~the pointer
sangga bonos~times of sorrow
sangga dilambungmu~when near you
sangga lojam~when you're tired
sanggak sanggak~astonished astonished
sanggak totong~amazed surprised
sanghae pungkul~quarter of an hour
sangharambar kaen~a piece of cloth
sangharimpang anggerek~an orchid
sangkambiur bunga~a flower
sangkambiur eme~a sprig of rice
sangke pat~leg hanger
santabi baoahu~sorry my man
santabi dainang~excuse me mom
santabi oma~excuse me ma'am
santi balatuk~gather
santisanti on~this offering
santokin dison~while here.
santokin mangan~while eating
sao halamunon~brown ripeness
saoloan do~agree?
saoloan mamillit~agreed to choose
saoloan ondol~solid agreement
saoloan rap~agree together
saong rade~movable food cover
saong ulu~head hood
saotik golpa~a little sticky
saotik ma~just a little
saotik mandosdos~a bit boring
saotik marpandoit~a little sarcastic
saotik pabiding~pulled over a little
saotik pamenakhon~a little calming
saotik tarsintak~a little flinched
saotik tudos~a little similar
sapala alang~ridiculously responsible
sapala naung~already
saparbinotoan au~as far as I know
sapasang anak~a pair of children
sapata hamajuon~as a result of progress
sapata manonggor~as a result of watching
sapi tu~in accordance
saptu minar~cheerful Saturday
sapu langit~sweep the sky
sara manat~thorough way
sara mandoltuk~how to hit
sara tolap~effective way
sarahu sadasa~my own way
sarang banua~protect the continent
sarbut panaili~pouting
saribu sundut~a thousand generations
sarikkat pardonganon~fraternal union
sarima baoa~look for a guy
sarima biangna~look for the dog
sarima hamletna~look for the girl
sarita ngolu~life history
saritahon ma~tell the story
saritai jolma~tell people
sarsarma haganupan~completely destroyed
sasahalak margoar~someone named
sasahalak pangulu~someone who is an intermediary
sasahali ibana~sometimes he is
sasara haganupan~overall
sasara jojor~sequentially
sasara mandosdos~evenly
sasara ojak~formally
sasara pane~in a flash
sasara pantun~politely
sasintongna ondeng~naturally
sasude abat~all centuries
sasude tompa~all forgings
sasudena panipu~all are frauds
sasudena sip~everyone fell silent
satabo sa~as he pleases
satolop bonar~agree, cheers....
satonga sahalak~half a person
satonga tiang~half mast
satorbang anakmi~your child's age
satulus rohami~as sincere as you are
saudutna mangingani~then occupy
saumur sa~his lifetime
sauo masak~Brown
saut bangke~so a corpse
saut bona~so stump
saut denggal~so tense
saut hamletmu~be your girlfriend
saut hordit~so it vibrates
saut ma~be
saut mardohar~so lucky
saut pangajari~be a builder
saut ris~so that's enough
saut sungkalit~so it's difficult
seat ginjang~top cut
seat sisungut~trim mustache
sedan aha~what sedan?
sega pikkiran~stress
semara hiap~fan cypress
seni tortor~dance art
sere oli~wedding gold
serep habongna~under his wings
serep langit~under the sky
serep mandera~under the flag
serep roha~polite
serep udan~under the rain
seri langkat~tree bark series
sesa ma~delete it
si jujur~the count
si pinta~the requester
sia naga~nine dragons
siaginon daging~bodily suffering
siaha adongma~sipolan is
siaha lapatanna~sipolan means
siahapon lumamglumamg~orphan fate
siak hata~spicy word
siak somal~regular spicy
sialap ingkau~tongue
siampudan musem~youngest too
sian bortian~from the womb
sian bulu~from bamboo
sian hadadao~from a distance
sian hagogoonhu~of my abilities
sian jaman~from time
sian leheng~from character
sian manjaha~from reading
sian nasa~completely
sian pahompum~from your grandson
sian pamatanghon~from my body
sian parsadaan~from the community
sian passorion~from association
sian pinasa~from jackfruit
sian pomparan~from descendants
sian sigop~from spry
sian sihabunian~from hidden
sian tutur~from relatives
siap ahu~curse
siapul hansit~sick entertainer
siapul lopok~main entertainer
siapul sajati~true entertainer
siar betak~possessed perhaps
siarum rara~red spinach
sibagur pangiranan~swamp toad
sibahut managam~catfish awaits
siboan masala~troublemaker
siboan tunas~shoot bearer
siboanon sorang~congenital
sibondut labang~greedy
sibuat muko~sycophant
sibuk lalai~lost in thought
sibuksibuk tobal~thick fleshy
sidalian mamalang~inhibiting reasons
sidalianna aha~what is the reason ?
sideak halasan~fireplace
sideang hanahean~ladder
sidumadang ari~sun
siganjang ak~snake
siganup ari~awaited
sigap bontis~deft deft
sigaret hulhulan~rolled cigarettes
sigaret timbaho~tobacco cigarettes
sigodang roha~cunning
sigotil monis~miserly
sigotil monis~stingy
sihandit dolok~wind
sihapor bungkasan~moving grasshoppers
sihapor hunik~turmeric grasshopper
sihapor manuk~chicken grasshopper
sihapor tami~praying mantis
sihar bintang~starlight
sihit sambola~sideways
sihol diapuli~miss being stroked
sihol gait-gaitna~miss his jokes
sihol margobar~miss being covered
sihol pamatang~miss figure
sihol ramun~forbidden longing
sihol rimasmu~miss your anger
sihol sonap~longing overflows
sihol ulaon~miss the round
siholna asi~miss you darling
siingoton mariposipos~lingering memories
siinumon botol~bottled drinks
siinumon pege~ginger drink
sijogal rungkung~drunk
sijolojolo tubu~ancestors
sikatoan hoding~special conversation
sikkolana timbo~high school
silagi ro~wretched
silbak piapiam~crack your kidney
silehon asi~giver of love
silehon dalan~way giver
silehon poda~advice giver
silehon tumpak~aid provider
silehon turgas~advisor
silinduat guru~teacher twins
sillam mangaroro~lightning strikes.
silua bagas~inner gift
silua ndada~souvenirs no
siluana mangeahi~the gift will follow
siluana musem~a gift too
simagomago au~I'm unemployed
simagomago balga~huge unemployment
simagomago dope~still unemployed
simagomago hasea~successful unemployment
simalolonghi bollang~my eyes bulged
simangguguri udan~Rain
simangot baro~scurvy spirit
simangot lilu~perverted spirit
simangot samatamata~mere spirit
simangot tonun~weaving spirit
siminikna godang~many grandchildren
simon ari~late afternoon
simpan bahen~prepare
simpang opat~intersection
simu eme~rice pests
sina ditulak~China rejected
sinamotna arga~the dowry is expensive
sinapang alogo~air rifle
sinemnem urukuruk~fine
sinemnem urukuruk~gentle
singgang marsomba~bow down and worship
singkora purnama~sixth day of the full moon
sinok menak~safe and peaceful
sinta mardangkai~branching love
sintahi mardangka~my love is bifurcated
sintamu marjehe~your love betrayed you
sintap nipi~just a dream
sintong hatahu~my language is correct
sintong surasura~correct estimate
sintongsintong sioloan~truly a role model
sinuan beu~child
sinuan beu~descendants
sinuan tunas~planted shoots
sipaboana jengkel~a sign of annoyance
sipajagarjagar sangke~hanging decoration
sipajagarjagar sangke~hanging decoration
sipak ho~kick you
sipak hulingna~kick the sound
sipanganon aha~consume what?
siparbagaon damang~father's mainstay
siparbagaon medan~mainstay of the field
sipareon maruolol~ears ringing
sipargogo hami~our helper
siparjehe ho~you traitor
sipasabam roha~entertainer
sipata bahen~sometimes used
sipata hatiha~sometimes
sipata holan~sometimes just
sipatu bojak~flippers
sipatu medan~terrain language shoes
sipatudu dalan~guide
sipele begu~animism
sipele begu~ghost worshiper
sipele ganaganaan~idol worshiper
sipujion oto~stupid image
sir madangadang~passion for adventure
sir mardalandalan~passion for walking
sira gula~salt, sugar
sirang ngolu~divorced
sirang pandan~pandan divorce
sirang sursar~scattered
sirik late~looking at something with a spiteful slant
sirimpuson igit~seminal finger
sirimpuson perak~silver finger
sirimpuson sere~gold finger
sirimpuson sipanudu~finger. index finger
sirpang opat~intersection
sirsir sapasang~fits a pair
sirumanggas diadaran~buffalo
sisean kristus~disciple of Christ
sisik aek~water level
sisik guting~dirty skin
sisik haurakon~pubic skin
sisik ias~clean skin
sisik malaklak~skin peeling
sisik pirapira~testicle skin
sisik tokke~city skin
sisingamangaraja lapatan~Sisingamangaraja meaning
sisobur tuak~drinker
sisolhot mansogohon~annoying cousin
sisolhot umuli~prettiest cousin
sisolhothu umuli~my prettiest cousin
sisombaon ganaganaan~idol worship
sistim beuk~immune system
sisuan baoang~onion grower
sitaon alus~person responsible
sitaonon gogo~hard blow
sitaonon jeges~good blow
sitaonon jogi~strong blow
sitaonon marlotom~thumping blows
sitaonon sipadot~broom blow
sitel panghataion~repeat words
sitompa nasida~their creator
sitop sege~stop sifting
situak natonggi~honey
situjuon damor~easy target
situjuon lopok~main target
situjuon martumbuk~boxing target
slimos surirang~information at a glance
so jolo~listen
so on~this traffic jam
so tartaon~restrained silence
soal raja~king's debate
soara abur~hoarseness
soara bodil~gun sound
soara bulu~bamboo sound
soara musik~music sounds
soara sio~shady voice
soara soaram~the sound of your voice
soara sumbang~discordant sound
soarana muse~his voice too
sobilak ho~patent with you
sodap loguna~nice song
sogar ambang~light fresh
sogar olo~fresh yes
sogo roha~annoyed
solang tingki~Grace period
soldadu parangan~army troops
soldadu porang~war army
soldadu tuhan~God's army
solop hapit~flip flops
somak poso~young bush
somak ramba~shrubs
somal bolon~usually stay up late
somal mabalu~usually widowed
somal mandongani~usually accompany
somalna dolidoli~usually men
somalna mangorai~usually nagging
somalna pinalolo~usually done
sombu rohahi~I'm satisfied
son himpu~come here, gather
sonang damang~be safe son
sonang parbornginan~safe lodging
sonang roha~proud
sonangma dirim~please yourself
sonangma hamuna~be happy you guys
sonangma na~be happy na
sonangma tondi~happy soul
sondang balau~blue light
sondang halibutongan~rainbow light
sondang jeges~beautiful light
sondang parbadia~holy light
sondang saksak~sparkling light
sondot mate~until he died
sondot pangituai~to the characters
sondot tarsor~almost
sonduk marata~ladle
songgak alom~rebuke your enemy
songik annon~rancid later
songik loni~rancid times
songik medan~rancid terrain
songon bojak~like a frog
songon na~like
songon sigomgom~as ruler
songon songon~a little bit
songonna tabo~it seems delicious
songonon ma~like this
songti rittik~really crazy
sonti dipatik~still
sopasopa sopasopa~sepah sepah
sopo balga~big hut
sopo eme~granary
sopo raja~the king's barn
sopola halipeon~without falsehood
sopola ho~without you
sopola sipajagarjagar~without decoration
soposopo robo~the hut collapsed
sorbop saut~suddenly happened
sori dangol~Unlucky
sori gabe~happy
sori gabe~blessing
sori mago~wretched
sori mago~Unlucky
sori niari~suffering
sormin mi~your mirror
sosak sahali~very stuffy
soso pir~tough advice
soto bara~chocolate soup
stress nunga~stressed already
suang pongkot~break even
suang songoni~also
suansuanan lomak~fertile plants
suansuanan marhederheder~slimy plants
suansuanan matua~old plant
suansuanan mi~your plant
suansuanan simarata~vegetable plants
suara luas~loud voice
suara timbangan~the sound of the scales
suasana lamo~cool atmosphere
suba didiori~try searching
suba meam~try playing
suba parapat~try to get closer
suba parrohahon~try to pay attention
subang loja~never get tired
subang roha~reluctant
suda pangir~finished shampooing
suda susuda~finished
suda tambarmu~your medicine is finished
sude badanna~all over his body
sude diboan~all brought
suga andurian~porcupine quills
suga morot~the spines shifted
suga sira~salt thorn
sugal sahit~relapsed
sugari sura~if
sugi sugi~uncomfortable uncomfortable
suhat bagudung~rat taro
suhat mekap~ornamental caladium
suhat roa~bad measure
suhi opat~rectangular
suhisuhi alaman~corner of the yard
suhisuhi pansa~corner of the stage
suhisuhi podoman~corner of the mattress
suhu bolon~great expert
suhul hudali~hoe handle
sulang pa~bribe right
sulik au~kidnap me
sulim batak~Batak flute
sulim poso~young flute
sulingkit bonana~investigate the source
sulusulu sulusulu~torch torch
suman bangkona~similar in nature
suman ilik~lizard-like
suman kristen~similar to Christianity
suman punasa~similar to his
sumbaiang jo~pray first
sumbang mudar~donate blood
sumbang tutur~replace
sumbangan hamamate~death donation
sumbangan hatutubu~birth donation
sumisi hudia~dispersed where?
sumisi sasudena~everything broke up
sumpa loja~I swear I'm tired
sumurung dolidoli~especially youth
sun dasardasar~shell ready
sun denggan~perfect
sun didalanhon~ready to run
sun diparade~ready to be served
sun dipatupa~ready to serve
sun malala~ready to rock
sundat mereng~failed to roll
sundat orom~break fast
sundat puasa~break fast
sundol suni~hidden revenge
sundung risi~tends to be rude
sundut hasudungan~miserable
sundut parjolo~The first generation
sungguli nasida~wake them up
sungka roha~reluctant
sungkalit marpingkir~hard to think
sungkana marbahasa~awkward with language
sungkot boli~hindered by a dowry?
sungkunsungkun mangarambus~striking question
sungkunsungkun sa~his question
suping dajo~Just smile
suping dipatudu~a smile is shown
supingma ho~smile you
supingma holong~smile darling
supingmu pandaoni~your smile is healing
supingna mangela~her smile is seductive
supingna tarbali~his smile was contagious
surak do~cheer up
surak hoga~cheers
surak seruk~chaotic
surak seruk~cheered
surak seruk~scream
surak surak~cheers
surat panjangkon~receiver list
suratan jeges~beautiful writing
surdukhon dilam~stick out your tongue
surgo igit~cum paradise
surgo juo~sperm heaven
surirang ari~weather forecast
susa bahasam~your language is difficult
susa habobongot~it's hard to get in
susa mangalupahonsa~it's hard to forget
susa tarnono~hard to fall asleep
tabanan jabu~house arrest
tabe donganhu~greetings my friend
tabe nasogotan~morning greetings
tabo begeon~tunable
tabo modomna~did you sleep well?
tabo sasadaon~nice to be alone
tabo taboan~delicious delicious
tabotabo maminjut~fat accumulates
tabrak pemodal~the dealer countered
tading garpa~just dregs
tading mangalap~just pick it up
tading niroham~stay in your heart
tagan dihatahon~when spoken
tagan hupastap~before I slap him
tagan ngolu~while alive
tagan parhundul~while resident
tagan so~before
tagasmu hetek~your taste is low
tagi la~charge him
tahi pangsiun~retirement plan
tahi tammat~plan is over
tahihon mangalupahon~plan to forget
tahim aha~what's your plan?
tahina amangamang~meaning husband
tahu martabak~Martabak scoop
tahuluk sage~straw hat
tais hutam~your village is far away
tajomna simalolonghi~my eyes are sharp
taktak daging~climb the body
taktak hoda~climb a horse
talam bohi~graceful
talas surgo~frankly heaven
tali detar~tie the headband
tali gitar~guitar string
tali pusok~umbilical cord
talu padot~lost painstakingly
talu tubi~lost the fight
taluhon alom~beat your opponent
taluhon pirdo~beat it hard
tamana ondok~like rhythm
tamba balga~get bigger
tamba ojak~become more established
tamba raksa~gain knowledge
tamba tarutung~add durian
tambak miak~oil grave
tambak rarangan~prohibition cemetery
tambar impas~medicine without exception
tambar sihol~longing antidote
tambon bearbear~buttocks, anus
tambon hudon~pot butt
tambon ihur~buttocks, buttocks
tambonna on~this butt
tambun lao~collected away
tambun tena~collected the dirt
tami santabi~sorry
tammat musem~finished too
tammat sabola~pass the line
tampurung kalapa~coconut shell
tanda haadongon~proof of attendance
tanda hurung~brackets
tanda uha~hyphen
tangan begu~ghost hand
tangan hae~thigh hands
tangan manggirgir~hands shaking
tangan peam~skilled hands
tangan peol~crooked hands
tanganhu manggirgir~my hands are shaking
tanganna marmudar~his hands were bleeding
tanggal bajuna~give birth to
tangi babi~pork sensitive
tangiang elekelek~prayer request
tangiang pangondianon~intercessory prayer
tangianghi dialusi~my prayers were answered
tangianghi martinangi~my prayers were heard
tangianghon ma~pray
tangihon hatahatahu~listen to what I'm saying
tangkang hian~really annoying
tangkas hebo~definitely excited
tangkas husan~definitely going there
tangkas mansut~definitely melted
tangkas taboi~it sure is delicious
tangkas tuli~definitely stop by
tangkasna manisia~definitely human
tangke balanga~cauldron stem
tangke eme~rice stalk
tangke sipadot~broom handle
tangkurak bagas~deep skull
tangkurak ngolu~living skull
tano dangar~barren land
tano darat~moor land
tano hau~woodland
tano lapang~mainland
tano lapang~plain
tano maradat~civilized land
tano maraek~ricefield
tano mudar~land of blood
tano rata~flat land
tano sampohul~handful of soil
tano somak~bush land
tano surgo~paradise land
tano tarsinta~beloved land
tano tolbak~landslide
tano tuhiltuhil~afternoon
tanom tanom~pent up
tao ligat~agile lake
tape porso~but it's a lie
tar albas~blown away
tar bilolangon~a bit nervous
tar dipahatop~sped up a bit
tar ditumpaki~helped a bit
tar gurgar~a bit messy
tar rangkak~a bit distant
tar siram~a bit flush
tarae tingki~feels like time
tarago ho~you're fooled
tarallang hata~already
tarallang sumpa~damned
tarallang uap~affected
taran so~before
tarasup karejo~job threat
tarbagi dua~split in two
tarbagi hombang~evenly divided
tarbege habar~heard the news
tarbege soara~sound......????
tarbereng jogi~looks strong
tarbereng mangeper~looks doubtful
tarbereng saksak~looks shiny
tarboan tolbak~carried away by a landslide
tarbolus nantuari~missed it yesterday
tardais au~I was touched
tardapotsa langkup~caught cheating
tardege pat~stepped on
tardungdung au~affordable for me
tardungdung tahitahina~achieved his dream
tarelek pedan~persuaded friend
tarhabar tarbarita~rumored, famous
tarhilala leleng~awhile
tarhilala soara~pretty sound
tarhilala tunduon~quite sleepy
tarhindat batu~lifted by a rock
tarhindat tedak~lifted open
tarhirim lungun~disappointed, sad
tarhona burabura~cursed
tarhona tondi~affected soul
tarida bagak~looks cool
tarida guting~looks dirty
tarida rundut~looks disheveled
tarida solhot~looked familiar
taringot ho~remember you
taringot tu~about
tarjalo pikkiran~logical
tarlalap ibana~he was complacent
tarlalap modom~fall asleep
tarlalap modom~fell asleep
tarlalap modom~asleep
tarlibas rohana~heartbroken
tarmali tondi~afraid
tarmali tondi~surprised
tarmali tondi~traumatized
tarnata pangalahona~it turned out to be his behavior
tarnok haholonganhu~sleep my darling
tarnok holong~fall asleep in love
tarombo batak~Batak pedigree
tarombo sa~his pedigree
tarompas au~I fell
tarompas ho~you fell
tarpangan dai~feel
tarpangan panghataion~consumed by words
tarpangan tingki~time consumed
tarpasiat ma~it's fulfilled
tarpasiat pinarsinta~desires fulfilled
tarpasidinghon janto~distance apart
tarpuji denggan~commendably good
tarpuji pinasangap~commendable respected
tarpulos ateate~feelings intertwined
tarpulos rap~intertwined together
tarrahut gomos~tied tightly
tarseat piso~knife cut
tarsongoni ma~that's how it is
tarsor nagila~almost crazy
tarsor ripur~almost extinct
tarsor saesae~almost naked
tartanom nipi~buried dreams
tartuktuk pedan~stumbled on a friend
taru kareta~between trains
taru marugamo~inter-religious
taruk aruaru~cough, throat
taruk mi~your cough
tarullus alogo~blown by the wind
tarunduk hata~confirmed
tarunduk hata~confirm
tarunduk hata~agree
tarup sio~shaded roof
tarus birong~black tit
tarus peang~sagging breasts
tarutung mambur~scattered durian
tas hadang~clothing bag
tas hauma~field bag
tastas manogot~through the morning
tata meme~papa mama
tatapan pinggol~ear gaze
tau sahali~very compatible
te hambing~goat dung
te mabaor~dung washed away
teal babami~arrogant your mouth
tedek rohana~willing
tema migar~stale theme
tembak alona~shoot the enemy
tembak hatop~shoot fast
tempo on~this holiday
tempo sonang~relaxing holiday
teni bodat~it's a monkey
teni gaja~elephant's hooves
teni panangga~the dog's poop
tepis piring~slap the plate
tete hansar~diarrhea
tiak monjap~squatting pee
tiar ma~be clear
tibaltibal pelean~collection offerings
tida bohim~show your face
tida dalanna~show me the way
tida rupami~show your form
tidos mamparhatoban~oppress, oppress
tigatiga godang~lots of sales
tihas aek~water defects
tihas pat~foot defects
tihas uhum~legal defects
tihus taban-tabanan~captive enemy
tijur dilat~spit lick
tiktik ajiajian~tap magic
tiktik pintu~knock on the door
timbil dasip~most patent
timbil juit~the most ignorant
timbil porsuk~suffer the most
timbil tolap~most effective
timbil tuarang~most popular
timbo pangimbungna~high in passion
timbona rohami~your heart is high
tindoan pustaha~literature review
tinggil tahan~responsive
tingki bangkin~dark times
tingki haleon~lean times
tingki holak~future
tingki holang~leisure time
tingki logo~dry period
tingki lompo~past time
tingki marlakku~validity period
tingki nuaeng~present moment
tingki parjuangan~period of struggle
tingki parpudi~last time
tingki singkor~crisis period
tingki sungkalit~hard times
tingkina hau~wood time
tingkina marsonang~time to relax
tingkina masuk~time to come in
tingkir huriam~visit your people
tingkos manghatahon~right to say
tingkos pangurupion~service quality
tinodo ansiat~appointed as
tinompa asing~another creation
tinompani siangmalam~acting up
tiopan angkang~hold on brother
tiopan gomos~holdfast
tiopan ho~hold you
tiopan ongkos~fare handle
tiopma tanganhu~hold my hand
tipak ma~get ready
tipul tanggurunghi~broke my back
titi ari~Titi Hari
titi be~titi every
tiur matana~his eyes bright
toba hadang~wear clothes
tobok silinduat~innocent twins
tobok tobok~innocent innocent
todo tu~point to
toe gabung~lets join
togap jogi~sturdy and strong
togap sahali~very sturdy
tohap dasip~patent
tohap tompa~Copyright
toho do~that's right
tohom mangadopi~tough to face
tohonan hepeng~position, money,
tois ho~you're rude
tois ho~you are arrogant
tois peus~arrogant, conceited
tokke bistok~smart boss
tokke dipasupasu~boss is blessed
tokke hamubaon~change agent
tokke panggadisan~sales agent
tokke pulsa~credit boss
tokkin hubuat~I'll take it for a moment
tokkin minar~cheerful moment
tokni ulu~dizziness
tokni ulu~Dizzy
tolbak gunung~mountain landslide
tole manggompang~body squatting
tole ojak~standing together
tolonan hae~esophagus
tolor hutu~lice eggs
tolor lali~eagle eggs
tolorna hutu~flea eggs
tolu pardonganon~three friendships
tombak rarangan~forbidden forest
tombis pukul~hit
tombis rea~Tanjung Raya
tompa malambut~looks nice
tompuk tambonna~pat his ass
tomu hamuna~welcome you guys
tomu lam~more and more
tomu mangeahi~one after another
tondi hita~our soul
tondi rangrangan~concept spirit
tondihu targora~my soul is called.
tondina ibana~his spirit is him
tondong borbar~complicated family
tondong ho~your family
tondong hu~my relatives
tondong mangabuk~the family insisted
tondonghu tarasi~my lovely family
tonga sip~was silent
tonggi supingna~sweet smile
tonggi ulina~sweet sweet
tongkin oto~hang on, stupid
tongon ditaon~feels right
tongos buktina~send the proof
tongtong didongani~always accompanied
tongtong ditangiang~always prayed for
tongtong hebo~always noisy
tongtong saroha~always be of one mind
tongtong sipaduruon~always isolated
tontu pandungdungion~certainly an achievement
tonunan batak~Batak weaving
topi buhit~edge of the hill
topi laut~beach
topik hepeng~money fractions
topik metmet~small fraction
topoti ibana~meet him
tor siram~flush mountain
torkan ni~guess that
torop hian~very lively
torsa limutlimuton~ancient story
torsa margombar~comic
torsa marudut~continuing story
torsa sajo~just tell a story
torsahon arim~tell me about your day
torsok hian~really delicious
torsok loni~delicious times
torsok ni~that's delicious
torsok pala~very delicious
tortor passorion~social dance
toru marroha~simple
toru namarngingi~under the jaw
torus manggomgomi~continue to dominate
torus martoruk~keep being humble
torus motor~car speed
torus tu~keep going for
torusma do~keep going
torusma hinan~move on first
torusma manggosa~keep hurting
torusson marnipi~keep dreaming
torusson parmeamanmu~continue your game
tos hosa~dead
tos hosana~die
tota mangan~eat regularly
total bintang~total stars
totar olle~develop talents
tu amonghu~to my father
tu dagingna~to his body
tu dapotan~to get
tu ginjangna~onto it
tu halado~to the assembly
tu jae~downstream
tu ni~to para
tu ombun~into the clouds
tu otoan~stupidity
tu son~here
tu son~come here
tu taboan~to enjoy
tuak anggur~grape sap
tuan boru~wife
tuan boru~wife
tuan doli~husband
tuan ijuk~sir ijuk
tuan pangiburu~jealous master
tuani ma~I'm grateful
tuat butuha~down the stomach
tuat jo~go down first
tuat namuli~down for a while
tuba engkel~fierce laughter
tubi manuk~cockfighting
tubis bulu~bamboo shoots
tubutubuni roha~thought
tudiape lao~wherever you go
tudos gaja~like an elephant
tudos hapas~like cotton
tudos ido~like that?
tudos jamporon~like confusion
tudos markassa~like looking in a mirror
tudos nasida~like him
tudos sina~like China
tudos tigatiga~like sales
tudos tokke~like a boss
tudoshon godangna~compare the quantities
tudung raja~king's hood
tuhan debatam~god your god
tuhan mangondihon~God protects
tuhan mangudurhon~God leads
tuhan marhuaso~God is powerful
tuhor bumbu~buy spices
tuhor hunsi~buy a key
tuhor sendor~buy dawet
tuk humaliang~around
tuk jumahana~tired of reading it
tuk sasudena~tired of everything
tukkar punam~exchange yours
tukkar sigaret~exchange cigarettes
tuktuk muse~knock again
tuktuk pintuna~knock on the door
tuling sambola~sideways
tulus parbinege~auditory focus
tumagon tabo~it's better to be delicious
tumagon unang~better not
tumaon aoangaoang~hold air
tumaon simor~hold back emotions
tumbuk api~fire fist
tumbur bulu~bamboo shoots
tumpal raja~Crown King
tumpal sere~gold crown
tundal ho~you're upside down...
tundal katua~upside down chief
tunduk urat~according to roots
tung baea~man anyway
tung bontor~really sincere
tung godangna~however many there are
tung nirasahon~really felt it
tung sura~If
tung sura~if
tunggul morbo~main merbau tree
tunggul panggabean~The main Panggabean clan
tunggul parningotan~main warning
tunggul sada~main one
tunggul tatap~main point of view
tunggul tunggul~main main
tungkol osang~chin support
tungkot heu~lethargic stick
tungtung bohi~face cover
tungtung hata~closing words
tungtung pipi~face covering
tungtung ulu~headgear
tunjang lonjan~track record
tupa manjua~might refuse
tupa panghasoloman~maybe a fan
tupa sonang~probably safe
tupa tama~ready to respect
tuptup hamu~your decision
ture sun~available, ready
turgas hoding~special task
turiturian apostel~the story of the apostle
turiturian poti~box fairy tale
turiturian tungkot~stick story
turpuk ende~song verse
turpuk panogu~guiding verse
turpuk panotapon~confirmation verse
turpuk situmpak~supporting verses
tusuk tolo~got a stab
tutung ebereber~burn the flutter
tutung lomang~grill lemang
tutung motorna~burn the car
tutung tallik~burn... slash
tutup patmu~close your feet
tutur marminggu~liturgy
tutur mudar~blood relatives
tutur parompuan~female relatives
tutur radoti~governance
tutur tarsongon~governance
tutur tota~code of Conduct
ua dialusi~please answer
ua dietong~please count
ua disuba~Please try
ua ebati~please visit
ua mamintor~please go straight
ua manjaha~please read
ua monjap~please squat
ua uduti~please continue
uak lanang~Wow Lanang
ualu bohi~eight faces
ualu pipi~eight faces
ualu ulu~eight heads
uarar marsinondang~brilliant success
uarna mandera~flag colors
uarnana hunik~the color is yellow
ubi kanji~gadong kanji
udang haithait~prawns
uduran jolo~front line
uduran panuturi~defense line
ugasan ringkot~funny thing
uhal au~my analysis
uhiran tangan~hand carved
uhum imbaru~new rules
uhum mi~your law
ujungna paet~the end is bitter
ula sada~do one
ula targadis~sold
ulahi luhut~repeat all
ulan ulan~character
ulang pulsa~pulse embara
ulaon dijabum~party at your house
ulaon hapanurirangon~prophetic work
ulaon ho~your round
ulaon manogot~morning work
ulaon paduahon~second round
ulaon partondion~study
ulaon partondion~ascetic
ulaula mamiari~winnowing tool
ulaula pamarsada~unifying tool
ulaula pansar~spray tool
ulaula porang~tools of war
ulaula tonun~the Loom
uli basa~present
uli ligat~beautiful and agile
uli utus~very pretty
ulina ngolu~the sweetness of life
ulina ni~that's sweet
ulina rongkaphu~my sweet soul mate
ulok marbisa~rattlesnake
ulos damar~resin cloth
ulu baltung~penis head
ulu gundur~pumpkin head
ulu margara~fiery head
ulu ponggol~stumped head
ulu tarida~head bobbing
ulubalang marsahit~sick hero
ulukku budingkil~I have a lump on my head
ulum tabo~your head is delicious
uluni rihit~burnt
uluni tot~knee
uluni tot~knee
umbak tangging~strong waves
umbang jaitun~olive pumice
umboto roha~sensible
umboto roha~virtuous
umma ondeng~just kiss
umma sajoma~just kiss
ummaon gedekgedek~armpit kiss
umpama pa~for example
umpamana tiruna~for example, for example
umpasa hepeng~money proverbs
unang bada~don't fight
unang bangkol~do not hesitate
unang bolon~don't stay up late
unang bolushon~do not miss
unang borbar~don't be complicated
unang buangga~don't overdo it
unang dais~do not smear
unang dangol~don't be miserable
unang dianjak~don't step on it
unang dibege~don't listen
unang dibereng~don't look
unang didokhon~don't talk about it
unang digalege~don't destroy it
unang dilaluhon~don't miss it
unang dipabagehu~don't listen to it next time
unang dipalao~don't get kicked out
unang dipamate~don't turn it off
unang dipardulihon~don't pay attention
unang diparhasomal~don't get used to it
unang diranapi~don't respond
unang diseat~don't cut it
unang ditagi~don't charge
unang ditangko~don't steal it
unang edang~don't go on a picnic
unang gabusma~don't lie
unang galeto~don't be stubborn
unang gamang~don't be afraid
unang gaor~don't worry
unang gumarapus~don't be reckless
unang halilian~don't be influenced
unang hassang~don't nuts
unang hobar~don't chat
unang hondur~don't slack off
unang husip~don't whisper
unang jogal~don't be punk
unang jua~don't refuse
unang kanji~don't starch it
unang lahang~don't be greedy
unang leas~don't be trivial
unang lintun~don't run away
unang lomos~do not worry
unang ma~don't
unang malal~don't worry
unang mamodai~don't advise
unang manalipon~don't call
unang mangalo~don't disobey
unang mangalojai~don't make it difficult
unang maniru~dont cheat
unang mansogohon~don't be annoying
unang maradu~don't fight over it
unang mardandi~don't sulk
unang marjehe~don't betray
unang marsuru~don't order
unang martumbuk~don't box
unang mengendos~don't have sex
unang momar~don't wander
unang mutung~don't be gloomy
unang nata~do not separate
unang natorop~not public
unang pabandothu~don't be itchy
unang pados~don't equate
unang paila~don't be embarrassed
unang paingot~don't remind me
unang parago~don't deny it
unang patu~don't submit
unang patudu~don't show it
unang pulik~don't separate
unang saehon~don't finish
unang sahatma~don't come
unang sogir~don't be dangerous
unang tarhiap~don't be surprised
unang tarhinos~don't get tired
unang tarlalap~don't get carried away
unang tinailihon~don't glance at it
unang tindi~don't overlap
unang torus~don't speed up
unang tumundalhon~don't turn your back
unang ulahi~do not repeat
unduk roha~according to
unduk roha~proper
unduk ulu~nutation
undukhon sajoma~just say yes
undungundung godang~many huts
undur diri~resign
une gansi~in order
une pandapotan~according to income
ungkap bajum~Take off your clothes
ungkap partinggal~open archive
ungkap pe~open it too
ungkap tonahu~open my message
ungkil beuk~invulnerable suffering
ungkor ro~welcome to come
unjur marroha~wise
unsok unsok~good luck
unte asom~lime
unte hunsi~key orange
unto munsat~migratory camels
untulan hassa~glass reflection
untulan sondang~light reflection
unungan bagas~application in
upa lompa~cooking wages
upana balga~the salary is big
upana metmet~the salary is small
urat bulu~bamboo roots
urat duhut~grassroots
uraturat mangga~mango fiber
urup dipareso~please correct
urup diranapi~please respond
urupi dietong~please count
urupi ditambahon~please add
urupi dongkon~please tell me
urupi gadishon~help sell it
urupi lagak~handsome galang
urupi tangihon~please listen
urupima au~help me
urupima itomu~help your brother
usang usang~skinny skinny
use tindi~overlapping
use udan~rainfall
use use~spilled spilled
usehon asim~pour out your grace
usehon hinan~spill it first
usehon inum~spill the drink
usehon ma~pour it out
utang mangalit~spiraling debt
utang salese~debt paid off
utok utok~brain
utokna tandol~his brain is shallow
utokutok siparjehe~traitor brain
aba lok ma~oh whatever
aba mara ni~oh that's dangerous
abak aha ni~gosh what is that
abak dohot marrindang~prosperous and prosperous
abak hita rap~we will prosper together
abak ina olo~oh mother yes
abak jolma on~oh this guy
abak mangarujak sahali~what a stab
abak mangarujak sahali~oh, it really hurts..
abara adong ma~shoulder is
abara na menak~comfortable shoulders
abatabat na jeges~good obstacle
abur gotil ma~sow and reap
ada kurangnya laut~albatross
adi na seri~this is a tie
adong aha sarita~what's the story?
adong do insak~is there any fault?
adong do paraloan~is there any resistance?
adong dope goragora~there are still calls
adong dope karejona~there's still work
adong dope sada~there's still one
adong dope tuakna~there's still palm wine in it
adong dopena hepengmu?~do you still have money?
adong ho ida~there you see
adong ni angkang~there it is, brother
adong par bumbu~there are people selling spices
adong pe arti~as for benefits
adong pe sipareakan~as for the purpose
adong pigapiga panganon~there is some food
adongdo disan parbornginan~Is there accommodation there?
adop siamun hambirang~facing right and left
ae modomna ho~you feel like you're sleeping
ae na tartanom~buried feelings
ae sigaret gamir~soft cigarette taste
aek kalapa poso~coconut water
aek mata marabur~tears in my eyes
aek matana marabur~tears welled up in his eyes
aek pege hipas~healthy ginger water
aek sa litok~the water is cloudy
aek simalolonghi durus~my tears melted
aek timbung balga~big waterfall
aek tuak sogar~fresh sap water
aga bahenan indonesia~Proudly made in Indonesia
aga dohot hagabuson~proud of lies
agah unang marlobian~oh, don't overdo it
agak boi saotik~maybe a little bit
agan habahaba ro~even if the typhoon comes
agan ho manesa~even if you delete it
agan nunga borngin~even though it's late
agan pe parila~even though he's shy
agan saotik impol~although a little tempted
aganan aek mersep~even if the water dries up
aganan hita marsirang~even though we are apart
aganan laut marsigorgor~even though the sea is rough
aganan sahalak pardosa~even though he is a sinner
aganpe tarpasidinghon janto~even though they are far apart
agia ni gogot~even though it's difficult
ago ama olo~make it difficult for you, father
agoan uhum basir~vile shard
agooo marbunga rohahi~oh my heart is blooming
ah dang bagaki~ah, how cool is that?
ah gait hian~oh so funny
aha abat mi~what is your problem?
aha ala nada~what's the reason for the tone?
aha antongan nangkin~what did you mean?
aha antongan ni~what do you mean by that
aha ardo mi~what's up with you?
aha baritana olo~how are you?
aha bogasna tanga~what's the connection bitch
aha bolon mi~what's your grand?
aha do dasip~what's a patent?
aha do margam~what's your surname?
aha do tahim~what is your intention?
aha dorunna marhatingkoshon~what's so hard about admitting it?
aha gorgor angkang~what's going on bro?
aha habar pandaoni~how are you doctor?
aha hape margam~what's your surname?
aha hasiputon mi~what are you busy with?
aha ho joujou~what are you calling?
aha ho manghaholongihu~do you love me?
aha ho monang~did you win?
aha imbarna rampak~what's the difference?
aha ingkon dipatorang~what needs to be explained?
aha lapatanna jahoba~what does jahowa mean?
aha lompanna nangkin~what was the side dish?
aha ma holong~whatever love
aha ma hubahen~I'll do whatever
aha ma panghilalaanmu~whatever your feelings are
aha mangarajumi au~what ponders me
aha margam angkang~what is your surname, brother?
aha margam ina~what is your surname ma'am?
aha margamu na~what is your surname?
aha margamu, hasian?~what is your favorite surname?
aha masalana katua~what's the problem chief?
aha muse patimbohu~what else is the height?
aha na bolus~what passes
aha na diloplophon~what is entered
aha na mabaor~what drifted away
aha na salpu~what passed
aha na songgot~what a surprise
aha na torus~what's fast?
aha nangkin dengkena~what was that fish?
aha naniomo sa~what are the advantages?
aha nari ula~is it still selling?
aha naung pangsiun~have you retired?
aha ndada sodap~what's not good?
aha ni hauma~what is rice field?
aha ni tape~what is tapai?
aha olo margana~what's his surname?
aha panghataion jolma~what people say
aha pangidoan ho~what do you suggest?
aha parsoalan hamuna~what is your problem?
aha sa lehengna~what is his behavior?
aha suhu i~what is an expert?
aha tahim muse~what are your plans again?
aha tahina ama~what do you mean father?
aha tahina amang~what do you mean sir?
aha tais holangna~how far is it?
aha uarna ulosna~what color is the ulos?
aha umbang ombun~what floating clouds
ahado ho hatai~what are you talking about?
ahu lomo dangdut~I like dangdut
ai bornok matana~why are his eyes watery?
ai hasomalon hian~it's such a habit
ai hinan diha~what are you doing first?
ai paet bagakma~why is it bitter? be beautiful
ai rimas martenju~why are you angry and fighting?
ajal mi portibi~your destiny in the world
ajal ni portibi~destiny of the world
ajarhon sa pere~teach it for free
ajiajian nari isi~magic still exists
akor dohot simatua~get along with in-laws
akor dongan saama~brothers get along
aksara simalungun mardalani~Simalungun characters for a walk
ala dirim uas~that you are thirsty
ala hamuraon tuhan~by God's mercy
ala hita naeng~that we will
ala tuhan hagogoonhi~because God is my strength
alai aekna ngali~but the water is cold
alai alani ido~even though that's why
alai alogo habahaba~but stormy winds
alai anggo hajahaton~but if it's a crime
alai anggo tupa~but if possible
alai au malungun~but I miss it
alai au marsahit~but I'm sick
alai begu jadijadian~but ghosts are fake
alai burjuna halakna~but he's a good person
alai di jua~but rejected
alai dungkon mandalani~but after experiencing
alai godang donganmu~but you have many friends
alai godang hepengmi~but you have a lot of money
alai halus do~but is it wrong?
alai ho iburuan~but you're jealous
alai hot merung~but still skinny
alai isi hahurangonna~but there are drawbacks
alai isi hepengna~even though there is money
alai jolma lumban~even though he's a villager
alai mangalean habar~but give news
alai manghitiri ngali~even though it was shivering cold
alai morana boi~but it's possible
alai nari tata~but still raw
alai ndada diula~but it wasn't done
alai ndada marguna~but it's not working
alai ndada tarpangke~even though it is not used
alai nunga ro~even though it has already arrived
alai pomparan sina~but of Chinese descent
alai sintahi balang~but my love is faithful
alai songon ganjil~but a bit strange
alai torus dibahen~but it continues to be made
alai tudos mangehet~but like mocking
alai unang bori~but, don't worry
alana imana lumpu~because he was paralyzed
alani asi basabasana~because of his grace
alani au pistar~because I'm smart
alani digarar ibana~because he paid
alani dohar mansalai~because it can be dangerous
alani gararan motor~because of car installments
alani hamletmu on~because of your boyfriend
alani hasundaton dibahen~because failure is caused
alani ndada mangarahon~because he didn't invite me
alani on bahenbahenan~because this is an act
alani panutungon harangan~because of forest burning
alapi tu jabuna~pick him up at his house
alat na jat~evil prophecy
ale beha arina~hi how was your day?
ale debata jahoba~ale debata jahowa
ale pande tokke~hi bookie
ale sae baris~yes, complete line
ale tean harajaon~O royal heir
ale tuan panurirang~yes sir prophet
aleale bagas asi~friends in love
aleale kompak hu~my best friend
aleale parompuan au~my female friend
aleale solu mate~canoe friend dies
alealena dua jolma~two friends
alimos hata sanding~the meaning of the word conjunction
allangi luhut panangga~eat all the dogs
allangi tangkoon mi~eat your loot
allangma dasardasar ido~eat the shell
allong di an~left there
alo jolma matua~against parents
aloalo ho la~your rival
alogo mangiup bunga~the wind blows the flowers
alogona pala ngali~the air is very cold
alu topar hita~our fist fight
aluhononhu ho annon~I'll catch you up later
alum ni ate~pleasure
alus aha au~what do I answer?
alusan na ampa~wise answer
alusan nang bibit~sharp answer
ama bohina mutung~Dad's face is gloomy
ama diordior ho~I'm looking for you
ama ho rumar~your father is illegitimate
ama hophop au~Dad hugged me
ama ina tarsinta~beloved father and mother
ama marripe godang~father has many wives
ama miak hepeng~father of money oil
ama na tongtong~eternal father
ama parhauma hunsi~key farmer
ama tanga panangga~bastard... dog
amang bagas sundat~sir in cancel language
amangamang nunga ro~husband has come
amangna na ginagat~Tai's father
amban bintang pasihar~why do stars shine,
amban ho geok~why are you ticklish?
amban ndada mangalus~why do not answer
amban pala pajongirjongirhon~why is it so scary
ambul mangaramoti roha~able to guard the heart
ambung di otoi~easy to fool
ambung mamuntarhon masala~easy to solve problems
ambung manombo sahitna~the disease recurs easily
ambung marhatai guting~easy to talk dirty
amongmu aga jumahana~your father would be proud to read it
amot au dison~protect me here
ampa bagas marpangalaho~wise in behavior
ampang do juang~A rectangular basket made from kah juang rattan
ampehon boban ni~put the burden down
anak ajar batak~Batak students
anak amangamanghu holong~my dear boy
anak anakna diondihon~their children are protected
anak au bistok~my child is smart
anak au remeng~my child is fussy
anak baju birong~black shirt
anak baju rara~red shirt
anak baoa hasian~beloved son
anak baoa hasianmi~your favorite boy
anak bodat jamporon~the monkey child is confused
anak boru torus~daughter continues
anak boru tulangna~his uncle's daughter
anak borua pangiburu~jealous girl
anak dolidoli sadado~the other boy
anak hamuna mardua~both of your children
anak hasian inong~mother's favorite child
anak hasian mi~your beloved child
anak hasianmi ina~your beloved child, mother
anak hinomit jakarta~Jakarta people
anak hinomit sabangso~countrymen
anak lobu galeto~stubborn slave
anak lobu holong~slave of love
anak lobu jempek~short slave
anak lobu pargabus~lying slave
anak lombu sere~golden calf
anak na nasasada~only child
anak nasasada hu~my only child
anak ni hau~shoots
anak parbue mi~your men
anak parompuan hasianmi~your beloved daughter
anak parompuan patoluhon~third daughter
anak parompuanna tulang~uncle's daughter
anak pidong darapati~baby dove
anak simpang tolu~three-way child
anak sisolhot sian~biological child of
anak tahan balbal~resilient child
anak targelleng hansit~the smallest child is sick
anak timbil dorsun~the dirtiest kid
anak unang dipalao~Don't send your child away
anakmi naung balga~your child is big
anang ma ngolu~I don't know if I'm alive
andar bagas parkongsian~attend the fellowship
ande di ho~leave it to you
ande hamu ma~leave it to you
ande ho ma~give it up
ande mi ma~give it up to you
andorang andorang akor~when you're getting along
andorang angkang manangani~since my sister handled it
andorang au ngalian~when I'm cold
andorang hubahen jabu~I'm building a house
andorang luhut martahi~when everyone plans
andorang manaba hau~when chopping wood
andorang mananggo duhut~is mowing the grass
andorang manangisi siahapon~is lamenting his fate
andorang mangendat tali~when pulling the rope
andorang mangondat timbaho~is smoking tobacco
andorang manjangkit hau~is climbing a tree
andorang manuang aek~when pouring water
andorang manunsi kareta~was washing the motorbike
andorang manunsi mata~was washing his eyes
andorang marsak roha~is having trouble
andorang meret toras~when growing up
andorang naniolina marpira~when his wife lays eggs
andorang ndada marapiapi~not in good spirits
andorang ngoluhu demak~when my life is peaceful
andorang panotnoti ho~looking at you
andorang sahit au~when my illness
andorang singkor hepeng~having a money crisis
andorang tanga lomolomona~when bastards run rampant
andos tu roha~hits the heart
anduhur hona jorgong~The turtledove got caught in a trap
andung anak ranto~the wail of a local child
andung roha on~this heartache
anggi angkup angkangna~his brother and sister
anggi marmeam pumpe~little sister playing with dolls
anggi pangoli parompuan~the bride's sister
anggi parompuan sisolhot~biological younger sister
anggiat abahan mi~hopefully your culture
anggiat arim jeges~wish you a beautiful day
anggiat au malua~I hope I pass
anggiat bogasna ganjang~I hope the relationship is long
anggiat boi mangalaosina~hopefully you can get through it
anggiat denggan gogona~I hope the results are good
anggiat dilean habengeton~hopefully you will be given fortitude
anggiat dipagogo gogom~I hope your strength is strengthened
anggiat dipahatop gajian~I hope you get paid quickly
anggiat dipahatop rongkapna~Hopefully his marriage will speed up
anggiat diparsadahon amen~hopefully united amen
anggiat ditogutogu tuhan~May God guide you
anggiat gabe pasupasu~hopefully it will be a blessing
anggiat gabe sioloan~hopefully be a role model
anggiat godang targadis~I hope it sells a lot
anggiat gok hatuaon~hopefully full of blessings
anggiat hamsar pardalananna~I hope you have a smooth journey
anggiat hamuna sonang~I hope you last forever
anggiat hasea anggi~good luck sister
anggiat hasea tulang~good luck uncle
anggiat hasohotonna sonang~I hope the marriage lasts forever
anggiat hatop salpu~hopefully it ends quickly
anggiat hatop targadis~hopefully it sells quickly
anggiat hatop tartangkup~hopefully caught quickly
anggiat hipas posoposona~I hope the baby is healthy
anggiat ho palambas~I hope you make room
anggiat holongmi bontor~I hope your love is sincere
anggiat i sungguli~hopefully you will be aware
anggiat inang baju~I hope mom is wearing clothes
anggiat isi dalanna~I hope there's a way
anggiat isi parsaulianna~hopefully there is wisdom
anggiat jagar bornginna~have a beautiful night
anggiat jahoba mangaloas~may Allah allow
anggiat jahoba manghamsarhon~May Allah make it easy
anggiat lam kompak~hopefully it will be more unified
anggiat lomo anggihi~I hope it pleases my sister
anggiat lomo itohu~I hope you like it my brother
anggiat manganju au~I hope you understand me
anggiat marrongkap hita~I hope we are matched
anggiat marsogot tastas~Hopefully it will come through tomorrow
anggiat ndada nalilu~hope you don't get lost
anggiat omo boho~I hope the results are satisfactory
anggiat posoposona hipas~I hope the baby is healthy
anggiat rajuman au~I hope I have good luck
anggiat rongkaphu tamuei~I hope my soul mate is herbal medicine
anggiat sasude lolo~may all wishes
anggiat sasudena ditulushon~I hope everything goes smoothly
anggiat saut hela~I hope to be a son-in-law
anggiat saut pardonganon~hopefully it will be a brotherhood
anggiat tangiangmu siat~I hope your prayers are answered
anggiat tarapul sasudena~I hope everyone enjoys it
anggiat tondonghu hipas~I hope my family is healthy
anggiat tongtong dipagogo~May you always be strengthened
anggiat tongtong dohar~May you always be lucky
anggiat tuhan mangaloas~may God allow
anggiat tuhan martembak~may God will
anggim naung modom~Is your sister asleep?
anggo anture baritai~if you need let me know
anggo boi do~if possible
anggo di sahiti~if you get hurt
anggo disaor ris~if mixed, enough
anggo hami manjumpanghon~if we find it
anggo hami umboto~if we knew
anggo hurang ditambahon~if it's not enough, add it
anggo i parade~if served
anggo ingot sajo~if only you remember
anggo isi dipajonok~if it's close by
anggo isi hulehon~if there is, I'll give it to you
anggo isi pangunjunan~if there is a trial
anggo marhatai gumarapus~if you talk recklessly
anggo mondokondok dokkon~if you're sleepy, say
anggo mongkus boasa~what if you're greedy?
anggo naung marulaon~if you're already partying
anggo naung tarpapungu~if it has been collected
anggo ndada haboratan~if you do not mind
anggo parruderude hadadao~if the artist is far away
anggo parsoalan ni~if that's the problem
anggo porso pidom~if you lie, you're in trouble
anggo ra malua~if you want to be free
anggo ra mangaririt~if you want to propose
anggo sundat bolong~if it fails throw it away
angguliman dodot marlomo~congratulations
angguliman hata panaru~foreword
angguliman pasupasu malim~priest's blessing
angguliman tabe pungu~complete greeting
anggulimanna holan mamorso~what he said was just a lie
angir langit dianggo~haughty
angir langit dianggo~arrogant
angir langit dianggo~proud
angka biru biru~a kind of jungle palm a kind of jungle palm
angkang bagak mangir~beautiful sister
angkang ganasna nariting~his brother was fiercely angry
angkang hatutubu sadia~how old was your brother?
angkang manaeki angkang~Brother rides sister
angkang manunsi kareta~Brother washes the motorbike
angkang maradong didia~where is your sister?
angkang martinodohon ido~the brothers
angkang martinodohon lae~brothers and sisters-in-law
angkang naingkon ihut~you have to come along
angkang parmossak songti~powerful warrior brother
angkang sisolhot hu~my biological brother
angkang tukkar hepeng~Brother exchange money
angkanghi dohot au~my sister and me
angkanghi na maras~my sister is concerned
angkiningan hita tandaphon~we emphasized earlier
angkup alani haulion~because of beauty
angkup dingkan soldadu~by the army
angkup ditulushon parsaulianna~and his sustenance will be smoothed out
angkup guru lipe~by false teachers
angkup pamarenta antong~by the government too
angkup pangemor ni~by the bandit
angkup poda sala~by false teachings
angur molo masak~fragrant when ripe
angur parbuena tandi~the fruit smells distinctive
aning das tarnono~wait until you fall asleep
aning diburai pardijabu~waiting to be scolded by my wife
aning dohot udur~waiting and queuing
aning donganna au~waiting for my friend
aning tolopan ama~waiting for your father's approval
aning uluan ondeng~Just wait for the commander
anjeanje asal manjadi~slowly as it happens
anju ma au~caress me
annon amanghu rimas~Later, my father will be angry
annon au alut~I'll massage later
annon au boahon~I'll tell you later
annon au dampol~I'll massage later
annon au garar~I'll deposit later
annon au rambu~I'll guide you later
annon au tomu~I'll catch up later
annon bura ho~later you will be strong
annon dimuruki dainang~Mom will scold you later
annon dimuruki ina~Mom will scold you later
annon ganjang pinggolhu~My ears will be long
annon godang rongit~there will be lots of mosquitoes
annon gotap ngingim~your teeth will fall out
annon hansit matana~your eyes will hurt
annon hita soal~We'll debate later
annon ho hudia~where will you go next?
annon ho ngalian~you'll get cold later
annon hu saritai~I'll tell you later
annon hu usung~I'll carry it later
annon huduru ndang~will it come out later?
annon ma maridina~take a shower later
annon ma saep~be patient
annon mangagak hamuna~I'll assess you later
annon mangangguk ho~you'll cry later
annon ngingina tanggal~later his teeth fall out
annon raksa hatop~later you will learn quickly
annon saut peol~it will become crooked
annon silbak silbak~it will crack later
annon tanggal ngingim~your teeth will fall out
annon ulina sonsang~Soon the beauty will fade
ansi angat sibolis~the devil's tricks
ansiat pandaoni rohami~as a healer for your heart
ansiat pandaoni sihol~as a remedy for homesickness
ansiat patujolo jamita~as an introduction to the sermon
ansiat sisombaon hu~as my worship
antaran na bidang~field
anto sahali ho~you really care
antong susa anggo~it's really difficult
antongan nuaeng aha~what do you mean now?
antuasu na lahang~greedy wolf
anture poti muse~need another box
aoangaoang tarae sogar~the air feels fresh
aoasi jolma ni~keep an eye on that person
aoasi panganon ido~keep an eye on that food
aor sondot hombang~mix well
aor sondot mandosdos~mix well
apala di jolo~front
apala godang hepeng~at least a lot of money
apala unang muraan~at least don't be cheap
apangapang hipashipas tongtong~pride in always being healthy
apoi dohot denggan~scold well,
apostel apostel managam~the apostles are waiting
apul ibana ma~comfort him
apusi aek matami~wipe your tears
arang arang dairi~Dairi district charcoal
aras dohot dorpi~pillars and walls
aras jorat solu~canoe tie-down pole
aras na momos~sturdy pole
ardang jolma ampa~wise man's poetry
ardang ni parhauma~farmer's poetry
ardang sian roha~hum from the heart
ardo lombu ondeng~just take care of the cows
ardo ngolu sadasa~take care of your own life
ardo ondeng ngolum~just take care of your life
ardoi ngolu sadasa~manage your own life
ardona au male~because I'm hungry
ardona babana lomo~because his mouth likes it
ardona nari padaodao~because it's still far away
ardona nunga borngin~because it's late
arga diri diompashon~self-esteem dropped
arga diri toruk~low self-esteem
arga hian olo~really expensive huh
arga na dia~which one is expensive
argana musem tardungdung~the price is also affordable
ari habot holom~dark cloudy weather
ari hatutubum on~this day of your birth
ari kamis da~Thursday yes
ari minggu songonna~Sunday I think
ari mohop genggeng~scorching hot day
ari na parbadia~holy day
ari na ribur~joyful day
ari on lahona~he's gone today
ari on ninna~today he said
arian marsoring borngin~day turns into night
arina udan torus~the day continued to rain
arirang hau bagot~arirang palm tree
arop ho anju~hope you understand
arop mangarti ondeng~please just understand
arop muat sajoma~please just understand
arop ni roha~hope
arop ni roha~hope
aropan balga kaluarga~the family's great hopes
arsak ama ni~the father complained
arsean suda mangan~hot after eating
arta holan tongosan~property is just a deposit
arta na sihabunian~hidden treasure
arti adat denggan~meaning of good customs
arti adat denggan~meaning of good customs
aruaru hansit sintong~really sore throat
aruaru hu hansit~my throat hurts
arur ni roha~conjecture
asa asa asa~so that so that
asa au punguon~let me save
asa boi marisap~so you can smoke
asa boto alamatna~so you know the address
asa bulus dibutbut~so it's easy to remove
asa da palang~so that the instructions say to ensure that the kincung flower has not yet bloomed
asa damor annon~so it's soft later
asa dapot ro~to come
asa ditambahon parsaulianna~to add to his sustenance
asa ditatap jolma~let people see
asa dohar dianju~so that it can be understood
asa dohar hasuksesan~so that you can be successful
asa godang dosamu~so that your sins will be many
asa hami tama~so that we are worthy
asa hatop jobung~to get caught quickly
asa hehe hita~so we can be agile
asa hita disalamathon~so that we can be saved
asa hita markato~let us tell the story
asa hita pature~let's assemble it
asa hita topoti~let's see
asa hu surathon~let me register
asa hudokhon di~let me tell you
asa huhaol hamuna~let me hug you
asa huhilalahon sadasa~let me feel it myself
asa isi hamletmu~let your boyfriend be there
asa jeges marguruna~so it's good practice
asa kaluar tokkin~let me go out for a moment
asa luhut dapotan~so that everyone gets it
asa marganda dosamu~let your sins increase
asa marganda dosamu~let your sins increase
asa marulaon hita~let us party
asa masuk doton~to enter the net
asa menak tondimi~so that your spirit can be calm
asa molo songoni~then if so
asa ndada diarbishon~so it's not linked
asa ndada mondok~so you don't get sleepy
asa ndada rambon~so it doesn't run away
asa ndada sobilak~so it doesn't get patent
asa ndada sungkana~so it's not awkward
asa ndada tarpunjung~so you don't get left out
asa ojak momos~to stand firm
asa panolangi au~let me suggest
asa pauliulian sajo~just to complete it
asa pikkiranna burjuburju~so that his mind is good
asa pungu luhut~so that everything is complete
asa punguon au~so I can save money
asa rampak hita~let's be with us
asa saut hela~to be a son-in-law
asa sinamot tarpapungu~so that the dowry is collected
asa sobu angkang~let's have fun bro
asa tabo didahop~so it's nice to hug
asa tarbereng jeges~so it looks good
asa tarpasiding sian~to avoid
asa tondina menak~so that his soul is at peace
asa tuba ganana~so that it looks fierce
asa unang antuk~so don't hit
asa unang sasadaon~so don't be alone
asal dalan so~as long as the road breaks down
asal datu parompuan~origin of female shaman
asal ma pinasingot~just be reminded
asal mida ompungna~just to see his grandmother
asal parbingkasan tao~the origin of the lake
asal peak tarnono~just lying asleep
asal rajuman di~source of sustenance for
asal upana tongon~as long as the salary is suitable
asal upana une~as long as the salary is appropriate
asalhon lomo bagim~as long as it pleases you
asar ni posoposo~womb
asi barita migar~give me stale news
asi dohot pangkirimon~love and hope
asi hua ina~give me mother's broth
asi manaluhon sasudena~love conquers all
asi na paharuarhon~liberating love
asi na sonap~overflowing love
asi ndada dai~darling I don't feel it
asi ni roha~grace
asi pungga rorot~foster care
asi ra marhua~darling, what are you going to do?
asi ra poto~darling, I want to take a photo
asi roha angkangmi~sorry for your sister
ate angur bunga~it doesn't smell like roses
ate asang bungka~not fencing
ate bahen maniru~not for cheating
ate ginjang roha~not arrogant
ate ido sangkaphu~that's not what I mean
ate ombasna morongorong~not the time to complain
ate panortor marsineangan~not just any dancer
ate pareman buronan~not a fugitive thug
ate parmahan parkarejo~not a hired shepherd
ate sahalak panghasoloman~not a fan
ate sundut laut~not the navy
ate taratara au~not my taste
ateate ndang manontu~feeling uncertain
atik boha galak~who knows how it turns on
atik ho monang~did you won?
atik tung sura~If
atik tung sura~if
atup dohot hasabamon~face it with patience
atup dohot menak~face it calmly
au absen parjolo~I was absent first
au ai dialo~I'm being resisted
au alapi dijabum~I'll pick you up at your house
au anak halado~I'm a member of the assembly
au anak parjolo~I'm the first child
au andorang peak~I'm lying down
au andorang sonang~I'm happy
au anture hadameon~I need a calm
au anture namarbaju~I need a virgin
au anture pangalusina~I need the answer
au anture pangurupionmu~I need your help
au asi amongmu~I love your father
au asi jaha~I love reading
au asi margahu~I love my surname
au ate anggim~I'm not your sister
au ate mangehet~I'm not mocking
au ate parbiar~I'm not a coward
au ate pargabus~I'm not a liar
au bagihon tuho~I give it to you
au bebe bagotmu~I squeeze your breasts
au biar tardidi~I'm afraid of being baptized
au biarna songonon~I'm afraid like this
au bias lapatani~I'm tired of translating
au bias pargabus~I hate liars
au botul sandang~I'm really pregnant
au buhai bosur~I'm starting to get full
au buhai ngorngor~I'm starting to get anxious
au bungkasan sian~I moved from
au bungkasan sian~I moved from
au bura ho~I curse you
au daldal loni~I'm sour
au deang ho~I'm your lady-in-waiting
au dijalo mandalanhon~I was asked to run
au diordior ho~I'm looking for you
au diori son~I'll track it here
au disuru manduhut~am I told to graze?
au dongani salelengna~I'll accompany you forever
au donganna hamletmu~I'm your girlfriend's friend
au duda ho~I'll beat you
au endehon pe~I sing too
au gere ondeng~I'm just kidding
au giling mu~I'll crush you
au giot banda~I want a grave
au giot didahop~I want to be hugged
au giot dilambungmu~I want to be near you
au giot dilat~I want to lick
au giot hasohoton~I want marriage
au giot hopal~I want a plane
au giot ligat~I want to be agile
au giot mangalupahonsa~I want to forget it
au giot maniroi~I want to explain
au giot tete~I want to defecate
au golom gomos~I hold it tightly
au guruhon annon~I'll learn later
au halakna pangiburu~I'm a jealous person
au hansurhon ngolum~I ruined your life
au hea langkup~I've cheated before
au holan langkuponmu~I'm just your mistress
au holan manutung~I just burn
au holan marpananginangian~I'm just listening
au holan paposhon~I'm just reassuring
au holan parkarejo~I'm just a worker
au holanma namarbaju~I'm just a young girl
au holong alealena~I love his friend
au holong balu~I love widows
au holong ianakhon~I love Bani
au holong lomak~I love lush
au hurang malo~I'm not fluent
au ihut marpananginangian~I'm listening too
au isi sundol~I have a grudge
au jolma jambi~I'm from Jambi
au jumpangi ho~I met you
au lobi sanggih~I'm more sophisticated
au loja mamente~I'm tired of waiting
au lomo alame~I like dodol
au lomo gondang~I like drums
au lomo lao~I like to go
au lomo managihon~I like sharing
au lomo marlojong~I like running
au lomo saor~I like to mingle
au lompa on~I cooked this
au lotak ho~I'll slap you
au lotak ra~Shall I stick?
au ma haholonganmu~I'm your darling
au ma ni~I'm that
au ma topik~I'm the flake
au mambolonghon hosa~I exhale
au mamintor mangalusi~I immediately answered
au mamorluhon pangurupionmu~I need your help
au mamparateatehon manat~I watched carefully
au manapu antaran~I sweep the yard
au manatap hatoropon~I looked at the crowd
au manatapna gong~. I looked at him closely
au mandege dengke~I stepped on a fish
au mangadangi jo~I wandered off first
au mangaehon hadameon~I feel calm
au mangahap lungunan~I feel lonely
au mangahap tarago~I feel cheated
au mangahap tarlibas~I felt devastated
au mangain abara~I shrugged
au mangalimbe nasida~I tell them
au mangan dohotsa~I ate with him
au mangarti parsorionmu~I understand your situation
au mangendat hosa~I took a breath
au mangenges sa~I nudged him
au manghaholongi hami~I love us
au mangolgap tijur~I swallowed hard
au mangoloi asi~I obey darling
au mangoloi parentana~I obeyed his orders
au mangunjun manggombar~I tried drawing
au mangunjun manurat~I tried writing
au manumbang siinumon~I contributed drinks
au maralus marhusip~I whispered back
au marbogas rosu~I have sex
au mardomu dohotsa~I met him
au marhosa tangging~I breathed hard
au marmudar sampuran~I'm mixed blood
au marolopolop hatontuon~I agree to the terms
au maronjat tete~I'm short of stool
au marpahu malungun~I miss you too much
au marsiulaon ansiat~I served as
au martaru dua~I bet two.
au mudu ibana~I guide him
au mulak tarsintak~I gasped again
au munik torus~I keep thinking about it
au musem tunduon~I'm sleepy too
au musu pirus~I'm anti-virus
au na lea~I'm the lowly one
au naeng mangarindanghon~I will prove it
au naeng manguhal~I will discuss
au naeng manuhorna~I will buy it.
au naeng marsidohot~I will participate
au naeng naeng~I want to
au naeng sesa~I'll delete it
au naeng tongos~I will send
au nalilu dison~I'm lost here
au nalilu on~I'm lost on this
au nangkin dohar~I just got it
au nangkin manopot~I just found it
au nari manganju~I still understand
au nari pamikkiron~I'm still thinking
au naung beuk~I'm immune
au naung hobas~I've packed it
au naung surathon~I've registered
au naung tulus~I'm sincere
au ndada haboraton~I do not mind
au ndada hae~I don't have thighs
au ndada hatotong~I'm not surprised
au ndada marhamlet~I'm not dating
au ndada nona~I'm not senile
au ndada tarputik~I didn't get picked
au ndangma tang~I'm not perfect
au nunga mangarimpu~I already thought
au oloma tulang~I want uncle
au pa bongak~I'm great
au pa mangarindanghon~I can prove it
au pahiandu somal~I'm a regular traveler
au paima baritam~I'm waiting for your news
au pakansi karejo~I'm off work
au pala marsak~I am very sad
au pala mirdong~I'm very stressed
au pamate annon~I'll kill him later
au panatapan lung~I natural scenery
au panggadisan napu~I sell fertilizer
au panghasoloman mi~I am your fan
au panotnoti annon~I'll look later
au pansar dohot~I spray with
au papunguhon on~I collected this
au pastap babana~I slapped his mouth
au pastap hurumna~I slapped his cheek
au pe punguon~I also saved
au pe rimas~I'm angry too
au pe songgot~I was surprised too
au pinahamat aha~what do I think?
au pintoron bias~I'm really bored
au podomi ibana~I slept with him
au ponggol marsiajar~I'm at the learning stage
au ponggol ulum~I'll cut off your head
au ponggolhon rungkungmu~I'll break your neck
au porlu pangurupionmu~I need your help
au pudun jo~I'll dress up first
au puna hasomalon~I have a hobby
au ra donganmu~I want your friend
au ra hosinghon~I want to go back
au ra mandongani~I'm ready to dig in
au ra mangana~I want to supervise
au ra manghatindanghon~I want to testify
au ra marbogas~I want to get in touch
au ra margusting~I want to prune
au ra martolon~I want to swear
au ra tusan~I want to go there ,
au rampak da~I'm with you
au reso jo~I'll check first
au rimang jo~I'll look at it first
au ringkiringki batak~I'm of Batak descent
au sahalak ma~I'm alone
au sahalak parhapistaron~I am a scientist
au sahalak parsikkola~I am a student
au saihur bodat~I'm a monkey
au saut bangkol~I'm so embarrassed
au saut bilolangon~I'm nervous
au saut sonang~I'm so happy
au sian parguruan~I'm from college
au sihol diapuli~I miss being stroked
au sihol hajahaton~I miss crime
au sihol hutahu~I miss my village
au sihol tanom~I miss your land
au sisean ina~I am your mother's student
au soksok dohotsa~I'm annoyed with him
au songon bistok~I'm a bit smart
au sorang di~I was born in
au sulik annon~I'll kidnap you later
au tagil ulum~I'll cut off your head
au tangko ho~I stole you
au tarnono bebe~I fell asleep
au tarsorang oto~I was born stupid
au topar ho~I'll punch you
au tudos diparhatoban~I feel like I'm enslaved
au tuhorhon sal~I bought a scarf
au tuk jadina~I'm so tired
au ugasan jesus~I belong to Jesus
auhon jolma batak~admit the Batak people
aupaup ni toba~insult
aut hot hipas~if you stay healthy
aut nari marbogas~if you're still in touch
aut sugarina ra~if you want
aut sugarina tudos~if so
ba martata suping~while smiling
baba dolidoli buas~the mouth of a wild man
baba hamu ngotngot~your mouth stings
baba ho dorsun~your mouth is dirty
baba marbohi dua~two-faced mouth
baba ni pansarian~life
babami tudos lubaklubak~your mouth is like a sewage system
babana tudos lubaklubak~his mouth is like a sewage system
babi na ditutung~roasted pork
babi on tabo~this pork is delicious
babi saok itak~flour fried pork
bada jo hita~let's fight first
bada sada pungkul~one hour difference
badia tongam marpalilung~noble, authoritative, virtuous
baea baea panangko~bastard man
baea baea rais~abandoned man
baea baea tois~savage man
baen hatorangan pakansi~make a holiday statement
baen i kilo~put it on the scale
bagak bolas bolas~cool, maybe
bagak dohot mala~beautiful and generous
bagak dohot marlinang~beautiful and radiant
bagak gelleng mu~your child is beautiful
bagak mansam gota~beautiful as a pulut
bagak na tarbali~infectious beauty
bagak rohami ungap~Beautiful? your heart? rotten
bagak sahali hamlethu~very beautiful my girlfriend
bagak sahali panatapan~very beautiful view
bagak saksak tongtong~always beautiful and sparkling
bagak songon bunga~beautiful as a rose
bagak tupa daina~it might seem cool
bagakma tingki roa~be beautiful in bad times
bagakna marangkang anggi~beautiful brothers and sisters
bagakna parpunguan ni~the beauty of being together
bagas haadongon gaor~in a state of chaos
bagas parolopolopon batak~in Batak celebrations
bagas pigapiga partompuran~in several battles
bagason boruboru hondur~women's insides are sagging
bagebage pa luhut~it's all done
bagi jo hepengmu~give me your money first
bagi jo saotik~share a little first
bagian arta pusaka~inheritance share
bagihon au sagalas~give me a glass
bagotna di bebe~her breasts were squeezed
bagudung sipanggaron songik~the rat is acting rancid
bah jalang sian~wow, greetings from
balos tonahu~reply my message
baruang~bear
lomo mangasungi~likes to slander
ndada marhepeng~has no money
sundat gabe~void becomes
utokutok late~spiteful brains
bahasam laok aor~your language is mixed up
bahen ambar lange~make a swimming pool
bahen bahenbahenan muse~do something again
bahen gasa ondeng~just make it angry
bahen jo sidalianna~make a reason first
bahen jo tuau~make it for me first
bahen ma punam~make it yours
bahen menak pikkiranna~make your mind calm
bahen nagaor do~make a mess
bahen ndang taratara~make it unappetizing
bahen pabagakhon jabum~to decorate your house
bahen patunggomhon ondeng~just to match
bahenan amangamang hu~made by my husband
bahenan inang baju~made by aunt
bahenan saripehu tarasi~made by my beloved wife
bahenbahenan ho ni~that's what you did
baja sian utara~steel from the north
bajar manang parsikkola~teenagers or students
bajar tingki nuaeng~today's teenagers
baju anak baju~shirt
baju rara jambu~pink clothes
bajum jeges sahali~your clothes are very nice
bakso dengke itak~flour fish meatballs
bala ni ranggapuri~the wrath of a kind of ghost against whom no sacrifice is made
balang dohot badia~loyal and pious
balau ragini ulos~blue motif
balbal hepeng sa~there's no money
balbal isi masala~there's no problem
balbal na husungkun~mace I asked.
balbal na sundat~failed club
balbal roha sa~his heart dreads
balga balga matana~big big eyes
balga do holongmu~great is your love
balga dok ho~you talk big
balga lambok muse~big and cool again
balga loni dengkena~the fish are big
balga loni hatahatam~your words are big
balga loni hurumna~his cheeks are big
balga loni pidongmu~your bird is big
balga loni pilathu~my penis is big
balga loni tambonmu~your ass is big
balga loni tambonna~her ass is big
balga pala hatam~your words are very big
balga sahali pilathu~my penis is so big
balga soara mi~your voice is great
balga upana diadui~the salaries are big there
baliksa huduru jadina~instead it came out
baliung nepnep jabu~the pickaxe destroys the house
balu sirang ngolu~divorced widower
balut sada bagian~pack one portion
bandara di olati~airports are restricted
bandit na i~that pickpocket
bangke jolma marujung~bodies of dead people
bangke ndang hosa~body without life
bangko hasomalon batak~Batak customs
bangko, tihas insak~faulty nature
bangkohu gale gamirna~My behavior is gentle
bangkomu mansam panangga~you are like a dog
bangkomu tudos panangga~your nature is like a dog
bangso bataki bagak~the Batak tribe is cool
bangso di matau~overseas tribes
bangso sundut on~nation of this generation
bao aha habar~Besan how are you?
baoa buea tur~land crocodile guy
baoa dolidoli denggan~good young man's son
baoa dolidoli gaor~the son of a chaotic youth
baoa dolidoli pambarani~son of a brave youth
baoa dolidoli ranto~son of an overseas youth
baoa igung bolang~masher man
baoa mi ibana~your guy is him
baoa ndada marguna~useless guy
baoa paredangedang harangan~forest explorer man
baoa tihas panangga~dog guy
bapbap das manogot~beat until morning
barang naung dijangkon~goods have been received
bargak ho hape~You're a coward apparently
barisan sai habang~line to fly
barita jeges dijangkon~good news received
barita lapatanan karo~Karo language translation article
barita marangkup lapatanna~article, along with its meaning
barita na buruk~bad news
barita na posi~sad news
barita nauli lukas~Gospel of Luke
barita nauli mateus~Gospel of Matthew
baritana denggan hami~the news is good for us
barlian uarar duma~diamond jaya prosperous
baru dope malum~just recovered
basabasa sian hami~a gift from us
basabasam mangaleap ngoluhu~Your grace floods my life
basabasam ndada marhasunan~your blessings are endless
kue gilok~caterpillar cake
mamanghulingi dongan~greets friends
mansai denggan~very good
mansaima pir~very hard
mi lipe~your bastard is fake
parompuanna bagak~the female is beautiful
porda piso~Knife handle
gartip gotil~fussy jewer
batisan tondi haholonganhu~my beloved soulmate
batu ho metmet~your seeds are small
batu na pir~grave
baurbaurhonma ardoanhu on~make things easier for me
baurbaurhonma luhut ardoanhu~make all my affairs smooth
baurbaurhonma sasude tuhan~make everything smooth, God
be arina marbarita~news every day
be manduda eme~every time you pound rice
be manodo eme~each pointing to rice
bege aninganing hami~hear our plea
bege di ruar~listen outside
bege on nanialap~Listen to this, ma'am
begu antuk bondil~ghosts hit infectious diseases in poultry
beha habar tanoman~How's the grave?
beha ho dai~how do you feel
beha nangkin disan~how was it there?
beha pambahenan ni~how is that business?
beha rio mullop~how rarely does it appear
beha rohana bangke~how does a corpse feel
beha sasintongna panghilalaanmu~how do you really feel
benda damo ngorngor~slow melodious slowly
benda eol sa~his movements are slow
bene dalani ho~you're tired of living
bene rampak manisia~tired of humans
benget ni roha~patience
benget ni roha~fortitude
benget ni roha~perseverance
bere anggi ina~mother's sister's nephew
bere parompuan haholonganhu~my beloved niece
bereng au ito~look at me auntie
bereng ma bohihu~look at my face
bereng ma dirihu~look at me
bereng ma haulion~look at the beauty
beristirahat dengan tuak~mangalap gogo dohot tuak
bernit roha hu~my heart hurts
bernit sahali pusupusuhu~my heart hurts so much
beta bada panangga~let's fight dogs
beta haliang hita~come on around us
beta hatop dibuha~come on, open it quickly
beta hita dungdung~let's get it
beta hita maredangedang~let's go on an excursion
beta hita marende~let's sing
beta hita markombur~let's chat
beta hita marlumba~let's compete
beta hutur torus~let's keep rocking
beta karejoi angkula~let's exercise
beta lulu hosomna~let's find the enemy
beta lumba muse~let's fight again
beta mangan manuk~let's eat chicken
beta mangan panggang~let's eat grilled
beta marbada topar~let's have a fist fight
beta marguru dalan~let's practice walking
beta marguru motor~let's practice the car
beta marsiadu roa~let's have a bad race
beta ndada edang~let's not have a picnic
beta sang ulubalang~come on, hero!
beta son donganan~Come on, friends
betak boi tarbarita~maybe you'll be famous
betak ido ingananna~maybe that's the place
betak ni ingananna~maybe that's the place
betak ra udan~maybe it's going to rain
biang hu mokmok~my dog is fat
biangna na dia~which dog?
biangna suman saotik~the dogs are a bit similar
biar di galmit~afraid of being pinched
biar salik au~afraid of slandering me
biarna jolma ni~that person is afraid
bias marsak heu~bored. too late. tired
bibi lasiak ijo~green chili duck
bibir ho bagak~your lips are beautiful
bibir sasara barangbas~sideways at random
bibir sasara gurgar~messy edges
bibit gogo parbolatan~border hardliners
bidadari ndada marhabong~angels without wings
bidadari ndang marhabong~Angel without wings
bilolangon nangkin au~I was nervous
bilolangon ndang morot~nervously motionless
binatang dohot suansuanan~animals and plants
binatang ma ibana~he's an animal
bingkas alame birong~black dodol
bingkas anak panoroni~stepdaughter
bingkas ansi ho~You're such a hypocrite
bingkas bou bodat~the smell of underarms
bingkas haluang ho~you bastard
bingkas ho panglatu~you're basically single
bingkas hora teger~you dwarf weasel
bingkas horong pogos~basic poor people
bingkas hutu babi~you pig lice
bingkas igung birong~black nose base
bingkas jomuran sibagur~basic frog clothesline
bingkas minik gelleng~you little brat
bingkas ndada parsikkola~basically uneducated
bingkas pardosa oto~you stupid sinner
bingkas pipi tembok~base of wall face
bingkas siparjehe holong~you traitor to love
bingkas tarjadina hasalaan~the cause of the error
binsan nari marumur~while still old
binsan nunga borngin~while it was already night
binsar dohot lonong~rising and setting
biraon jolo eol~presumptuous front of motion
biraon siamun eol~presumptuous right move
birong alani buntak~black with mud
birong gula jaua~black brown sugar
birong matutung mataniari~sunburned black
birong tudos agong~black as charcoal
birsakan aek tijur~splashes of saliva
bistok olo anaha~smart, my son
bitik rap pedan~experience with friends
boaboa tu ruas~notification to members
boahon ina guru~tell the teacher
boan jambu ni~bring the guava
boan ma motorna~take the car
boasa adong dope~why is it still there?
boasa adong goarhu~why is my name there?
boasa adong hagabuson~why are there lies?
boasa adong karosi~why is there a chair
boasa adong panolsolion~why is there regret
boasa antong apala~why is that?
boasa bangkol ho~why are you reluctant?
boasa boi gaor~why is it messed up?
boasa boi malas~why are you lazy?
boasa boi masihol~why do you miss it?
boasa dengke marlange~why do fish swim?
boasa di marpananginangian~why are you listening?
boasa dijama boltokna~why is he holding his stomach?
boasa dimuruki pahompuhu~why did my grandson scold me?
boasa disuru martata~Why, are you told to laugh?
boasa ditatap ida~why look?
boasa ditulak taliponna~why was the phone rejected?
boasa dohot rupana~what's wrong with his looks?
boasa elat ho~Why? you're envious
boasa gabe ajal~why is it fate?
boasa gabe gaor~why is it so noisy?
boasa hamuna gotap~why did you guys break up
boasa hamuna ingkat~why are you running
boasa hamuna mangonjar~why are you pushing
boasa hamuna marbadai~why are you fighting?
boasa hamuna marbadai~why are you fighting
boasa hamuna marbadai~why are you fighting
boasa ho dibalbali~why were you beaten
boasa ho monjap~why are you squatting
boasa ho oto~why are you stupid?
boasa ho taru~why are you delivering
boasa holan dijaha~why only read?
boasa huroha loguna~why the song?
boasa huroha mengkel~why are you laughing?
boasa huroha nabodari~why apparently last night?
boasa huroha pilat~why does it look like a dick?
boasa hurohae sidalianna~why apparently the reason
boasa ibana hilalahon~why does he feel?
boasa ina talipon~why are you calling?
boasa ingkon marbiasbias~why do you have to avoid it?
boasa jolmai songonon~why is that person like this?
boasa kareta digadis~why is the motorbike being sold?
boasa kareta on~why this motorbike
boasa karetam on~what's wrong with your motorbike?
boasa margabus ho~why are you lying?
boasa marsak torus~why do you keep being sad?
boasa mate talipon~why is the phone dead?
boasa motor sa~why the car
boasa motori macet~why is the car stuck?
boasa motorna sega~why the car is broken
boasa muruk amang~Why are you angry, Dad?
boasa mutung sajo~why are you just sulking?
boasa mutung torus~why do you keep frowning?
boasa naung mampar~why has it spread?
boasa ndada dialo~why not fight it?
boasa ndada dibuha~why doesn't it open?
boasa ndada ihuton~why not join in?
boasa ndada marende~why not sing
boasa on hopal~why is this a plane?
boasa oto ho~why are you stupid?
boasa pangalusina ni~why is that the answer?
boasa rungkungmu mamahe~why is your neck wearing
boasa sahat marsirang~why did you get divorced?
boasa sai repot~why are you always busy?
boasa silonging songon~why is it so quiet?
boasa songon maheu~why do you feel lethargic?
boasa songonni bohina~why is his face like that?
boasa songonon ganana~why does it look like this?
boasa songonon hamu~why are you like this?
boasa sude totong~why is everyone surprised?
boasa susa dipadenggan~why is it so hard to fix?
boasa tonahu disesa~why was my message deleted
boasa tongtong maronjat~why is it always crowded?
boban ulu tondong~responsibility of the head of the family
bodat aha habar~monkey how are you?
bodat au bou~My armpit stinks
bodat hasian hu~my favorite monkey
bodat marmeam leangleang~monkey playing kite
bodat osang ganjang~long chin monkey
bodil bosar bulu~bamboo cannon
bohado barang i~how is that thing?
bohado tanduk hamuna?~how are your horns?
bohal amangamang bagas~husband's provisions in
bohi dohot sipareon~face and ears
bohi hu husom~my face is dull
bohi marbohi dua~double face
bohi na hosom~pouting
bohi na hosom~gloomy
bohihu mambahen sipaboana~my face made a gesture
bohim mansam sonduk~your face is like a spoon
bohim martata suping~your face is smiling
bohim mi marmiak~your face is oily
bohim ndada haberengan~your face is not visible
bohim pala ringkot~your face is very cute
bohim songon baruang~your face looks like a bear
bohim songon bojak~your face is like a frog
bohim tudos babi~your face resembles a pig
bohina bagak luhut~all her faces are beautiful
bohina balga sahali~his face is very chubby
bohina suman manuk~his face looks like a chicken
boi bahasa surabaia~can speak Surabaya
boi di lango~negotiable
boi dipalao hita~we can be thrown out
boi hape ditiopi~can it be arrested?
boi ma otik~maybe a little
boi mamintor diinum~can be drunk straight away
boi maradi satangkirisap~can rest for a while
boi marende tarnata~I can sing apparently
boi mate au~I could die
boi ondol ni~you can, that's great
boi sali abarana~I can borrow his shoulder
boi saut anggia~could be a sister
boi saut bohal~could be a provision
boido au saut~may I be
boido putik on~usually pick this
boido umma umma~can you kiss?
bojok hamuna hubahen~I'm confusing you guys
bojok ra alusna~confused about the answer
bolas au tingkir~can I take a peek?
bolas huhaol dirim~can I hug you?
bolas ma hamuna~go on you guys
bolas ma jo~move on first
bolas ma uduti~you can continue
bolas mangido sambal~you can ask for chili sauce
bolas maribak pa~can you look for it?
bolas ondol ni~OK, that's great
bolas sali hepengna~can borrow the money
bolas sali kareta~can borrow a car?
bolat bolat harajaon~kingdom boundaries
boli ma hiap~buy a fan
boli ma panganon~buy food
bolis nunga ro~Satan has come
bollang medan lapatanna~Medan language literacy means
bolo diula sauduran~when done together
bolo ibana padalanhon~when he does
bolo marasing marga~if different clans
bomna nunga ro~the bomb has arrived
bona ni dolok~Hill
bona ni garar~punjar
bona ni garar~punjar
bona ni haehae~pelvis
bona pusupusu hu~base of my heart
bona sa hansit~basically it hurts
bona tangiang hu~the main of my prayers
bonai dohot martangiang~start with prayer
bonana denggan sahali~the tree is very good
bonana huingot torus~I just keep remembering it
bonana jalo asi~basically thank you
bonar anak paduahon~the spirit of the second child
bonar di matau~enthusiasm abroad
bonar ho sikkolana~your enthusiasm for school
bonar marhalado torus~spirit to continue serving
bonar marhalado tuhan~passion for serving God
bonar ngolu manimbuknimbuk~enthusiasm for life increases
bonar olo marsiajarna~be enthusiastic about learning
bonar parungkil rupia~Spirit...!!! rupiah fighter
bonar ramot marsiulaon~good luck, good work
bonar sopola bolat~boundless enthusiasm
bonar unang hondur~Don't lose your enthusiasm
bonarna satulus rohami~as sincere as your heart
bongak hian ho~you were great
bongak hian nunga~it's really great
bongak musem sa~handsome too
bongak sahali berehu~my nephew is very handsome
bongka diruar pareso~things out of control
bongka na sasintongna~the real thing
bongka on dibahen~This is due to
bongkak hurum hu~my cheeks are swollen
bongkak igung hu~my nose is swollen
bongkar muat ibana~load his palm
bonor ma ho~be honest
bonor ma ho~be honest
bonos dohot tapa~mourning and meditation
bonos mandosdos bias~bored boring bored
bonosan lonong harom~disaster, drowning, shipwreck
bontar loni hita~our time is white
bontar tio muse~clear white again
bonton di dibolus~hard to pass
bontor ni roha~honesty
bontor ni roha~trust
borhat ma baoahu~go my son
borhat ma hita~off we go
borhat tuhor hunsi~go buy a key
borhatma tu sikkola~go to school
boritan bagas ngolu~pain in life
borngin angkanghi asi~night my dear sister
borngin annon marisap~smoke tonight
borngin di hapuloan~night in solitude
borngin na lengket~nice night
bornginna holom loni~it's dark at night
bornok do barangi~that stuff is juicy
boru borui dijambret~the woman was snatched
boru tunggal tong~male daughter remains
borua ate namarbaju~girls are not virgins
borua bagak hampung~beautiful village girl
borua bagak mangir~beautiful beautiful girl
borua batak dialo~the Batak girl was resisted
borua boru purba~daughter of an ancient clan
borua luhut isina~girls are all in it
borua ni mamartida~the girl denied
borua pananom eme~rice planting girl
boruboru ae tunggal~female tastes male
boruboru anggo boi~women if possible
boruboru marateate bolis~devil-hearted woman
boruboru pargabusdo ho~you are a lying woman
boruboru poso tangkasna~young woman for sure
boruboru siboan ressok~noisy woman
botang jogi jogi~dashing, tough, strong
botang musem ho~you're brave too
botang sahali angkang~very brave brother
botari di siram~afternoon watered
botari hu sihol~I miss twilight
boto do dainang~do you know mom?
boto do ibana~he knew
botodo ho panangga~do you know dog
botohon panduda on~this pounding arm
botohonna morot hehe~his hands moved nimbly
botulna ni amang~that's right, sir
botulna on asi~this is true darling
bou manuk robus~the smell of boiled chicken
bou sa mandoit~the smell is strong
buangga godang santisanti~too many offerings
buas na parangan~royal the warrior
buat di poti~take it in the box
buat galas sada~take one glass
buat jo sabotol~make a bottle first
buat lompalompa tabo~make delicious food
buat musik ni~make that music
buat tes las~make hot tea
buathon au handehande~get me a shawl
bubur migar ungap~rotten stale porridge
budakhu nunga ro~My slave has arrived
bugang bugang diri~personal injuries
bugang roha on~this heartache
buha buha ijuk~open open the fibers
buhai barani ibana~he started to be brave
buhai isi halenseng~starting to have doubts
buhai mangarur suriga~starting to get suspicious
buhai sian borngin~starting from evening
buhit dohot rura~hills and valleys
buku janjela banuahu~window to my world book
buku musa parjolo~first book of events
buku poda bagas~inner teachings
bulan jolo pestana~next month the party
bulan jolo tastas~next month through
bulan nanaeng ro~next month
bulan oktober tastas~October through
bulan sada on~this month
bulu na marsoara~sounding bamboo
bulu tompa aek~water tempered bamboo
bulung asar banua~continental nest leaves
bulung buhai rurus~the leaves start to fall
bulung hapas ponji~kapok leaves
bulung hassa basir~glass leaf
bulung pisang parbue~fruit banana leaves
bulung pisang parbue~fruit banana leaves
bulungna di pasaut~the leaves are made
bulungna maruarna hunik~the leaves are yellow
bulus alai sudung~simple but special
bunga mataniari huputik~I picked sunflowers
bunga ni holong~beloved
bunga ni holong~favorite
bura alani marpambahenan~strong because you do
bura lapatani bagas~kualat translate in
bura tu anakna~cursed at his son
buri jo motorna~wash the car first
burihon sonduk ni~wash the spoon
burjuna habar hamuna~is your news good?
buruk gabe denggan~bad becomes good
busbus di reso~check immediately
busbus malum sahitna~get well soon
busbus manaeki balatuk~immediately climb the stairs
busbus oloi asi~soon, darling
busbus topot au~propose to me immediately
busbus tu pandaoni~see a doctor immediately
busisa olo tuhan~anxious, my God
butuha mi bunsit~your stomach is bloated
da sapu ua~the clue says to make sure the broom is screaming
dabu tu bondar~fell into a ditch?
dabu tu tolbak~fell into a landslide
dada angkang lagak~damn handsome brother
dada ompung boru~Grandma's medicine
daga gait olo~oh kidding yeah
daga tontu ndada~oh of course not
daging dohot tondingki~my body and spirit
daging hadameon nasional~national security agency
daging marpahu mokmok~the body is too fat
daging tarae gale~body feels weak
dagingna ibana tabo~his body is good
daina laok aor~it feels mixed
dainang bou bodat~Mom smells like her armpits
dainang lao hudia~where is mom going?
dainang mambias au~mom hates me
dainang miak hepeng~mama oil money
dainang na pabalgahon~mom who raised
dainang pangido urupi~Mom asks for help
dainang tarsinta sian~beloved mother of
dakdanak ndada mamorso~the children did not deny it
dalan dalanna hami~our way
dalan dihuta posa~the roads in the village are bad
dalan haruarna dia~where is the way out?
dalan na dibolus~the path passed
dalan na tigor~straight path
dalan naung martagi~the road is full
dalan parhorasan kaluarga~road to safety, family
dalan so ndada~the road is not congested
dalan tarutung mambur~durian-strewn street
dalanan lam tongor~the streets are getting busier
dalanan on dihomat~This road is closed
dalanhu hudophon hombang~I think my road is flat
dalani atim ondeng~just enjoy it
dalani dohot mura~live it and keep it simple
dalani sopola arsak~live without complaint
dali balga birat~big plump milk
dali hamu mabola~your milk splits
dalihan dapur ido~the kitchen stove
dalihan hagompison portibi~world health organization
dalihan inganan mangalompa~cooking stove
dalihan manjae masarakat~independent community institutions
dalihan tumpak uhum~legal aid
damang andorang mangula~Dad is hoeing
damang andorang markobun~Dad is gardening
damang ina horbo~father and mother buffalo
damang ni peleng~Dad is spoiled
dame abak saguman~peace throughout
dame ni jeges~Peace is beautiful
damo sahali asi~very sweet darling
damporna gogoi inanginangmu~it's good to rape your wife
damporna mangan rap~it's nice to eat together
dan dali babiat~tiger milk mushroom
dang adong guna~useless
dang adong memori~no memory
dang adong muatan~no load
dang adong tahan~no hold on
dang adong tempo~no holidays
dang adong tuak~no palm wine
dang adong tuak~no palm wine
dang denggan mamurai~it's not good to curse
dang di ajar~not teaching
dang jeges hasian~not good darling
dang marama marina~orphan
dang porsea matamu~can't believe your eyes
dang sadape pangidoanhi~none of my requests
dang saera pangidoan~not according to request
dang saut pangambati~not a barrier
dang saut sinamago~not a problem
dangdut huboto dope~I know dangdut again
dangol roha ho~your heart is sad
dangol roha on~this is heartbreaking
daon ni sihol~present
daon ni sihol~memory
daon ni sihol~giving
daona das an~it's a long way there
dapotmu sa annon~you can do it later
darema dongan dongan~get ready friends
das di bontean~arrived at the port
das loja mangiup~until you get tired of blowing
das rintop tambonna~until his butt itches
das surirang saudutna~until further information
dasardasar di parmeaman~shell for games
dasardasar kalapa puntar~broken coconut shell
dasardasar uluni tot~knee cap,
dasi dohot tahuluk~tie and hat
dasingan na digunahon~size used
dasip bagas dangdang~arrange in steamer
dasip loni angkang~patent, bro
dasip ma torus~keep arranging it
datu ni perdagangan~shaman of the trading cities
datu ulok on~this snake charmer
deba balga masarakat~most of society
deba hudokhon porso~some of it I said was a lie
deba sian hita~some of us
demi hepeng au~for my money
demi ho ina~for your sake mother
demi ho inonghu~for you my mother
demi mangaramoti parhorasan~to maintain safety
demi mangontapi samar~to prevent infection
demi na lemes~for smooth sake
demi sada nipi~for one dream
denggal dohot gasa~tense and angry
denggal sahali pipi~very tense face
denggan amangamang hu~OK, my husband
denggan denggan marisap~it's not good to smoke
denggan denggan marsiajarna~it's good to study
denggan do amang~that's good sir
denggan hian endena~the song is very good
denggan hian soarana~the sound is good
denggan hian tahim~your intentions are very good
denggan muse rohana~his heart is good
denggan nanialap bagak~OK, beautiful madam
denggan obut birong~nice black hair
dengganma bagas martarombo~good at speaking
dengganma sadia upana~That's great, what's the salary?
dengke aek lango~freshwater fish
dengke luti balga~big snakehead fish
dengke musu landit~anti-slip fish
dengke nabalga rara~Red snapper
deradera ni roha~error
di adopan hami~in front of us
di asang pa~it's reliable, right?
di asar sa~in his nest
di bagas mandar~in the sheath
di bagas roha~deep down
di bait ondeng~just fits
di be panuhoran~for every purchase
di berengi sa~looked at him
di bilut sambola~in the next room
di bogor utara~in north Bogor
di bola dia~on which side
di buat siinumon~made a drink
di dalan parsikkola~on student street
di dia gaitna~where's the funny thing?
di dia halusna~where's the harm?
di dia hutam~where is your village?
di elek beha~persuaded how?
di emper jabu~on the porch
di gabusi ho~you were lied to
di gabusi jolma~people lied to
di ginjang podoman~on the bed
di godang nian~many want
di hadengganon rap~for everyone goodness
di hadungon tambing~on the edge
di halalapan luhut~forgetting everything
di harat rongit~bitten by mosquitoes
di humaliang mi~around you
di ingot dangol~sadly remembered
di jala tumpal~to be crowned
di kabupaten lae~in the district of brother-in-law
di lambung jabu~around the house
di luat jae~in the downstream area
di luat on~in this region
di mambahen lompalompa~to make food
di managihon pusaka~to divide the inheritance.
di mananggo sibuk~to cut meat
di mandaoni hasiholan~to cure longing
di mandulo anakna~to visit his son
di mangaduk hangoluon~to improve lives
di mangalap boruboru~to pick up women
di mangebati hamuna~to visit you
di mangeur marbinereng~to divert attention
di manghatahatai aha~what are you talking about?
di marsi mangurupi~to help each other
di ngolu tau~to live in harmony
di otoi au~I was fooled
di paborhat pungkul~at the departing hour
di padu pasu~on a large plate freezes
di pahiandu marbitik~for experienced travelers
di pajagarhon ma~to respect it
di paluahon ugamona~to save his religion
di pangke manalipon~used to call
di parpudi halina~for the last
di partaonan rurus~in autumn
di pasidinghon parbadaan~to avoid a fight
di pasingothon pagogohon~to rebuke strengthen
di pasonanghon ho~to make you happy
di pasondothon pambalian~to stop transmission
di patimbohu damang~at height son
di pinalolo lompan~to be used as a side dish
di porlak ho~in your garden
di pudun mangolu~in a noose
di pusa hasiholan~tormented by longing
di pusuk bagak~at the top of beauty
di radot hadameon~to maintain security
di roha niba~in my mind
di ruang labilabi~in the wormhole
di sahalak siparjehe~for a traitor
di sambal siak~in hot sauce
di saut kedanmu~to be your friend
di songonima halina~for so many times
di sulingkit muse~look at it again
di suru tulang~told by uncle
di tabanan pa~in detention right?
di tanom tanom~in the planted grave
di tarsongon pa~held
di tingki ardoanna~at the time of his business
di tingki jolona~for his future
di tombis kareta~hit by a train
di topi ambar~by the pool
di topi i~on that edge
di topi ni~on the edge of the para
di torsahon angkup~told by
di tudos haurakon~on like a genitals
di uba gabe~changed into
di undur das~postponed until
di undur tarnata~apparently postponed
dia alana umbahen~Why
dia alana umbahen~Why
dia alona dongan~where is your opponent, friend?
dia bolas dos~which can be similar
dia hepeng hadameon~where's the security money?
dia na sumurung~which one is the most important?
dia naeng boto~who wants to know?
dia pipi asi~where's your face darling?
dia ruasna on~where are these members?
dia siluana damang~where's dad's gift?
diabithon otik ongkos~a small fee is charged
diajari sarupa ama~my father advised me
dialap ama sa~his father picked him up
dialuhon sarupa hahana~complained to his brother
dialusi rampak amangamangna~her husband answered
diam pada kuburan~stay in the grave
diama silua mi~ask for your gift
diar bongak saotik~let it be a little great
diarin di bege~let it be heard
diarin ido tangkurak~let it be a skull
diarin lok hu~leave it up to me
diarin ondeng lupahon~just forget it
dibagi be hita~given to each of us
dibagi tolu jambar~divided into three parts
dibahen hebo luhut~everyone was excited
dibahen hebo sasudena~everyone was excited
dibahen lambung abat~made around the century
dibahen mata on~because of these eyes
dibalonghon jolma ido~that person threw him away
dibaritahon angkup tutur~reported by relatives
dibereng pangke matami~see with your eyes
dibereng tu siamun~looked to the right
diboan suping ondeng~just bring a smile
diboan tubagas tangiang~brought into prayer,
dibongoti bolis huroa~possibly possessed by a demon
didia ho bahen~where do you make it?
didia ho bere~where are you nephew?
didia ho jou~where do you call?
didia ho maridi~where do you shower
didia ho martandang~where are you dating?
didia ho nabodari?~where were you last night?
didia ho nangkok~where do you ride
didia ho radoti~where do you keep it?
didia ho rongkap~where do you match?
didia ho tading~Where do you live
didia ho tuat~where do you get off?
didia hundul on~where is this sitting?
didia hunsi hu~where are my keys?
didia hunsi jabu~where are the house keys?
didia luhut maradong~where everyone is
didia nomor lima~where is number five
didia peak halusna~where is the fault?
didia pollat mi~where do you stand?
didia ulu ho~where is your head?
didia uluan mi~where is your leader?
didiori ndada isi~searched for none
didok roha niba~my mind
diebati marala mangebati~visited for reasons of visiting
digadis rampak ise~sold to whom?
digarut borua bagak~scratched by a beautiful girl
diha na hansit~are you sick?
diha na ribak~what's torn?
dihansiti angkup baoa~hurt by men
diharat aha patmu~was your leg bitten?
dihatahon ina sa~said his mother
dihatahon jolma matua~spoken by parents
dihatindanghon angkup huriana~witnessed by his people
diholangholang dua simpang~between two intersections
diholangholang rohami rohahi~between your heart my heart
dijaha huhut antusi~read and understand
dijahahon angkup panjaha~read by the reader
dijalo di mandonganina~asked to accompany him
dijalo manang sininta~asked or requested
dijalo tu ruas~asked the congregation
dijangkon angkup tuhan~accepted by God
dijolo das tupudi~front to back
dijonoki sibolis mulak~approached by the devil again
dila lombu tabo~delicious beef tongue
dila mi jempek~your tongue is short
dilambung on sa~near here
dilaonlaon ni ari~later
dilaonlaon ni ari~Then
dilat ondeng au~just lick me
dilean hagompison tongtong~always given health
dilehon hosa hangoluon~given the breath of life
dilehonsa dalan huduru~gave him a way out
dinamarsirang dohot ho~farewell to you
dinas adaran olo~field service yes
dion au patuathon~here I lowered
dion isi hasianmi~here is your favorite
diontang sada huta~invited by a village
diordior au nangkin~I was looking for it
diose sori ganaganaan~violated. disaster. idol
dipabotohon tu masarakat~notified to the public
dipahatop olo asi~Hurry up, darling
dipaila godang jolma~embarrassed by many people
dipainte gokhonna tokke~Waiting for the invitation boss
dipajonok dohot ditulushon~brought closer and launched
dipangke ansiat panullang~used as an awl
dipangke di manurat~used for writing
diparbadiai sagi ibana~consecrated to him
diparsinta dohar didungdung~aspired to be achieved
diparsinta haadongon sasudena~Everyone is expected to attend
dipasintong alani haporseaon~justified by faith
dipasupasu akka gellenghu~blessed my children
dipasupasu lima anak~blessed with five children
dipasupasu ngomngom tuhan~blessed before God
dipasupasuhon tuhan pomparan~God has blessed him with offspring
dipatudu angkup panampuran~indicated by the combination
dipauli angkup raja~built by the king
dipungka dohot marminggu~begins with a prayer service
dipungka dohot pamilian~starting with selection
dipungka parbingkasan adong~started there
dipungka sian bilut~starting from the room
diri au marsinta~myself make love
dirimpu porso au~I thought I was lying
diririt marbingkas sinamot~selected based on dowry
diruma saut hatoban~at home as a maid
disalamathon alani haporseaon~saved by faith
disalamathon angkup parenta~rescued by commando
disambil pangke ompan~caught with bait
disaring asa tio~filtered to make it clear
disesa do dosamu~your sins are erased
disoroni sadasa ondeng~just take care of yourself
disuan di hauma~planted in the fields
disuan di kobun~planted in the garden
disungkun ndada mangalus~asked did not answer
disuru di marboras~sent to bear fruit
disuru jala pasupasu~sent to be a blessing
ditaba luhut bonana~cut down all the trees
ditaban pasiding pangalaho~captive, avoid, conduct
ditading tingki bajar~left behind by adolescence
ditatap ni aha~what is that staring at?
ditudoshon ise pe~than anyone else
ditulak elaela malluga~rejected, invitation, rowing
dituntun ho lomom~forced you like you
do dongan mi~next to you
do ima dosamu~that's your sin
do pudun mangolu~in a noose
dobar udan nangkin~it was raining heavily
dodot marhoda sinta~join in horse riding
doge ama sigomgom~O father ruler
doge panondang roha~O light of the heart
dohar anak badia~the sustenance of a pious child
dohar ma pinasingot~fortunately reminded
dohar ponggolon arga~get a discount
doho aha sa~what honor?
dohonon ma holonghi~say my darling
dohonon ma holonghu~say my love
dohonon ma onpe~say so
dohot ampit supingmu~in harmony with your smile
dohot arga tardungdung~at affordable prices
dohot au pangalahohi~and I am my nature
dohot dihomat dohot~and closed with
dohot do ho~you follow
dohot do ho~are you coming with me?
dohot dongandongan au~and my colleagues
dohot donganna sangga~and his partner when
dohot giot rittik~and almost crazy
dohot harimpang bunga~and a flower
dohot holong parbadia~with holy love
dohot isi tondina~and there is a soul
dohot jahoba parbadiai~and Allah bless you
dohot maga panesa~and most merciful
dohot mamalu musik~by playing music
dohot mambolonghon rapan~and throw away the trash
dohot manesa sundol~and erase grudges
dohot mangalean pangiringon~by providing supervision
dohot mangatim haulion~and enjoy the beauty
dohot manghorhonhon jullong~and cause flooding
dohot mangongkal gadong~and digging sweet potatoes
dohot musem tortor~and also dancing
dohot nanaeng posoposona~with her future baby
dohot odong marhusor~in a rotating direction
dohot padan tonggi~and sweet promises
dohot padot mangentei~and persevere beyond
dohot pahompum pinomparmu~and your grandchildren are your descendants
dohot pamasahon sa~and make it happen
dohot porsan di~by bearing on
dohot puliling lambok~with a gentle touch
dohot ragam marhahurangon~and all in need
dohot saarga lonsam~for the amount
dohot sara manat~in a thorough manner
dohot saribu sundut~and a thousand generations
dohot satabo olomu~as you wish
dohot saut pelean~and become a sacrifice
dohot soara karas~out loud
dohot soara sihil~in a loud voice
dohot sungkunsungkun ni~with that question
dohot tarunduk ila~bowing his head in shame.
dohot uluan ondeng~with the commander alone
dohoti nonang nasida~follow their conversation
dohoti ondeng rohana~just follow his wishes
dok ni roha~sadness
dokhon torus tiur~say it straight
dolidoli dohot namarbaju~young men and women
dolidoli igung bolang~noseless man
dolidoli marbogas daging~men having sex
dolidoli mata hirang~womanizer man
dolidoli na ojak~established man
dolidoli na parila~shy guy
dolidoli namarbaju marmeam~young men and women playing
dolok na barat~latitude mountains
dolok, buhit tangkurak~skull hill
domdom umbak marugupugup~the roar of the waves roaring
dompak hambirang eol~move left facing
dompak siamun eol~move right facing
domu ma hami~we fit
domu ma ni~that fits
donda hamu hipas~when you are healthy
donda sopola soara~soundless
dongan dongan huta~regional friends
dongan marmahan horbo~friends herding buffalo
dongan na hasea~useful friend
dongan na hebo~excited friend
dongan tubu ni~that surname
donganan ondeng hita~just be friends with us
donganan ondeng olo~just be friends, okay?
donganhu manggulut hamlethu~my friend stole my guy
dongani au mulak~accompany me home
dongani pardalananhi tuhan~accompany me on my journey God
dongkon rampak ina~tell mom
dopang botak i~hold on to that baldy
dophon bile ibana~underestimate him
doras loni galumbangna~the waves are strong
dorpi jabu nipi~dream house walls
dorsun ho ni~you're dirty
dorsun sahali ngolum~your life is so dirty
dorunna di pardalanan~it's hard to travel
dorunna mangalului hangoluon~it's hard to find a life
dorunna ngolu tuhan~God's life is hard
dos ni roha~agreement
doton dohot hail~net and hook
doton dohot hail~nets and fishing rods
doton hail ulaula~net. fishing rod. tool
doton omo omo~Spider webs
dua borua bagak~two beautiful girls
dua juta saratus~two million one hundred
dua paranggap dolok~two mountain guards
dua taon lelengna~two years
duhut panguduti ngolu~life-saving grass
duma uarar mardohar~prosperous prosperous lucky
dungdung ma sintasintam~achieve your dream
dungkon au mahilolong~that's why I postponed it
dungkon au manungkun~that's why I asked
dungkon deuan bolon~after the great council
dungkon di parhasomal~so get used to it
dungkon di parrohahon~that's why pay attention
dungkon hu parrohahon~after I noticed
dungkon sasudena diolopi~after everything is approved
dungkon sombu marmeam~after being satisfied playing
dungkon tarsampur hombang~after mixing well
dungkon unang palelenghu~so don't take too long
dungkonsa umma habengkukon~except cheating kisses
dungo dungo simarata~wake up wake up vegetables
dungo hampung dungo~wake up village wake up
dungo modommu sihit~you wake up on your side
dungo nunga borngin~woke up late
durak ho au~humiliated you me
durus annon ho~you'll melt later
durus tudos mommon~melts like snot
ebati tokkin tu~have a quick visit with
edang di parapat~sightseeing in Parapat
elekelek di mudu~please guide
elekelek santabi halalapan~sorry I forgot
elekelek songkongan tangiangni~please pray for your support
elekelek tangiangmu ina~please pray for me mother
elekelek urupi rarat~please help share
eme dohot hapas~rice and cotton
eme marboras dobar~rice bears abundant fruit
ende anak pangaranto~songs of migrant children
ende anak ranto~regional children's songs
ende angguliman tuani~song of thanksgiving
ende baen lomak~song for lush
ende halomoon ibana~his favorite song
ende manogot ari~morning song
ende na jeges~beautiful singing
ende panaru modom~lullabies
engger sahali ho~Aim once you
engkel na malua~loose laughter
engkel na tartanom~pent up laughter
eol dua sirimpuson~two finger style
eol hita muse~we're moving again
eret jo ina~move first, mother
eret ruang nonangan~swipe chat room
etongan ni ariari~calendar
gabe anak hasea~become a successful child
gabe apangapang indonesia~become the pride of Indonesia
gabe lobi denggan~become better
gabe tarboan au~so I got carried away
gabung ma au~join me
gabus ma ho~you're lying
gabus mi ni~your lie
gadap musem au~I lay down too
gadis dengke assim~selling salted fish
gadong insir robus~boiled sweet potato
gait gait sa~just for fun
gait gait sajo~just for fun
gaitan mi mamatehon~your jokes are deadly
gaitna beha habarmu~funny thing, how are you?
gaitna eolmu ni~your style is funny
gajian di tulak~salary returned
galak tudos lilin~burning like a candle
gale daging dohot~body weakness and
gale gale marhatai~tired of talking
gale loni ho~you're weak
gale loni hosomna~the enemy is weak
galeto loni ho~you're stubborn
galmit on pusupusuna~pinch this heart
gamir dohot manghundang~soft and alluring
ganana on asi~this shape darling
ganjang ma sahitmu~your pain is long
ganjang umur pardonganon~long live friendship
ganti nomor dison~copy the number here
gantung mokmok pinasa~hanging fat jackfruit
ganupan bolak hangoluon~all areas of life
gaor do hatahu~Is my language messed up??
gaor hamuna olo~you guys are bothering me
gaor loni hamuna~you guys are having a hard time
gaor loni ho~you're annoying
gaor loni on~messed up this time
gara-gara awal para~sarcastic at first
garang ma ho~you are brave
garapus ho oto~careless you fool.
garar hepengmi hinan~deposit your money first
garar ma tota~pay regularly
garar utang hamu~pay your debt
gareja matua~the old church
gareja songon parao~the church is like an ark
gari ho rittik~while you are crazy
gari hotuk pintu~even knock on the door
gari saotik diparsinta~even a little desirable
gari uhal hamletna~instead he talked about his girlfriend
gasa au jahana~I was furious when I read it
gasa musem lelengleleng~angry too for a long time
geok hamuna pa~you're amused, aren't you?
geok sadasa au~I'm amused myself
gerhana bulan diatas~lunar eclipse above
gerhana mataniari sissin~annular solar eclipse
giling dope marhallet~grinding and dating
giling mamangke batu~grind using a stone
ginjang hata sa~on his word
ginjang ni apostel~over the apostles
ginjang pangidoan inangmi~at your mother's suggestion
ginjang satonga luat~over half the territory
ginjang tumpak mandohoti~for participation assistance
ginonggomanna baea baea~it's a man's
gioang jagar marsinondang~beautiful brilliant pearls
gioang timbil marsinondang~the brightest pearl
giot au usehon~I want to share
giot ganup ari~almost every day
giot huhaol dirim~I want to hug you
giot ma ho~be diligent
giot manalipon ibana~want to call him
giot mangalului sonang~want to find safety
giot mangan alame~want to eat dodol
giot mangaririt borum~want to propose to your daughter
giot mardongan saripe~want to have a family
giot marsuan tungkot~want to plant sticks
giot marubat huta~Do you want village treatment?
giot muat ho~I want to know you
giot ndada hutanda~almost unknown to me
giot ni roha~desire
giot ni roha~pleasure
giot ni roha~favorite
giot pamenakhon diri~want to calm down
giot sahatopna mulak~want to go home as soon as possible
giot sataon sae~almost a year finished
giot tongtong dilambungmu~I want to always be near you
giot tu pasir~want to go to the sand
giothu paspas bohina~I want to slap his face
goar au bibit~my name is Arif
goar au bolon~my name is akbar
goar au damar~my name is damar
goar au flora~my name is flora
goar au mika~my name is micah
goar au rambu~My name is Pandu
goar au sipujion~my name is citra
goar bahen anggihi~name for my sister
goar hu bolon~my name is big
goar jabuna aha~what is the name of the house?
goar sa poda~his name please
goar sikkolana aha~what is the name of the school?
goarna i parbadiai~his name is glorified
goarna mi tembok~it's called mi wall
goarna musem parmeaman~it's also called a game
godang anak parompuanna~many daughters
godang boban hu~I have a lot of responsibilities
godang dok holonghi~talk a lot my darling
godang eolmu hutingkir~I've seen a lot of your style
godang ganti margonti~lots of changes
godang jolma disan~lots of people there
godang jolma ilik~lots of lizard people
godang juo huduru~a lot of sperm comes out
godang loni hatam~you talk a lot
godang loni leak~lots of times
godang loni masalam~many times your problem
godang mangan dodak~eat a lot of bran
godang mansam paraloan~many kinds of matches
godang naniomo tokke~lots of income boss
godang pangaluaran au~I spend a lot
godang panghapit medan~lots of terrain language clips
godang pangidoan sa~lots of orders
godang parbue joring~lots of jengkol fruit
godang sahali hatam~you talk a lot
godang saritamu ni~you have a lot of stories
godang tabotabo hu~I have a lot of fat
godangan sungkunsungkun mi~you have lots of questions
godangma dion marsaor~there's a lot of mix here
godangma pangido hepengna~ask for a lot of money
gogo ni pikkiran~opinion
gogot di ditadinghon~hard to leave
gogot diantusi sa~it's hard to understand
gogot marsurasura beha~it's hard to imagine how
gogotna mangalului jabu~difficult to find a house
gok ma hepenghi~I have a lot of money
gok ma marsiajar~learn a lot
golap ni ari~Evening
gomgom ondeng dirina~just control him
gomos ma ho~you are strong
gonong saridondonon jempek~short round
gonti dinas borngin~change night shift
gonting au hansit~my waist hurts
gora di hamuna~matter for you
gora goragora bontean~the port screeched
goragora dongan parompuan~call fellow women
goragora mangabuk ondeng~Urgent calls only
goragora na potir~terrible scream
gota ni damar~resin resin
gota sian suansuanan~sap from plants
gotap mata rante~break the chain
guit be ari~touch every day
guit be roha~touch every heart
gula gula manis~sweet sugar sugar
guna doton suansuanan~function of plant webs
guna luluan dohar~to seek fortune
gupak au didia~where is my machete?
gurgar sahali obukhu~my hair is so messy
guru au monding~my teacher died
guru harangan longolongo~wilderness teacher
guru nunga ro~the teacher has arrived
guruhu buea tur~my teacher is a land crocodile
haadongon burjuburju haraan~are you in good condition?
haadongon simangot badia~the presence of the holy spirit
habagakonna lam tarbereng~her beauty became more visible
habalangonna buhai munggil~his loyalty began to waver
habalian ae marsala~escape from guilt
habalian sa ibana~his escape
habang luhut annon~fly all later
habang nangkok hopal~fly by plane
habang tu ombun~fly into the clouds
habangsa asi tuhan~the power of God's love
habangsa di ngolum~power for your life
habangsa di pandaoni~power to heal
habangsa sian tuhan~power from God
haberengan roa sa~it looks ugly
habiaranna manang sitaononna~anxiety or suffering
habir di arina~depending on the day
habir di hamu~depends on you
habir tingki jolo~depending on the future
habis ma hita~we're finished
habis ma luhut~it's all over
habis ma naung~that's it, it's finished
habit panggulsakon harotas~efficient use of paper
habobongot nanget nanget~come in slowly
habot ni roha~sadness
habot ni roha~trouble
habot tabo modom~cloudy good sleep
habotna holong lipe~sadly fake love
habotna ngolu hu~my life is sad
habotna ni dison~that's sad here
haburjuhon dohot bajur~diligent and careful
haburjuonmi naeng tongtong~your kindness will always be
hadaian na sasintongna~true enjoyment
hadameon dohot hadameon~peace and tranquility
hadameon na mangangkupi~accompanying peace
hadang balanjo papan~food and clothing board
hadang napu nasa~all the fertilizer
hadoson hata nengel~deaf synonyms
hadoson hita on~our equation
hadoson parbue gundur~Gundur fruit equation
haduan naung lebaran~The day after tomorrow is Eid.
hadumaon bagas ngolu~prosperity in life
hadungon dohot bona~tip and base
haenna kaen ulos~the fabric is ulos cloth
hagabuson naeng tardas~lies will be revealed
hagaoron dohot omar~commotion and confusion
hagiot ni roha~favorite
hagulsakon mata bagas~inner eye use
hagulsakon toktok ripe~use of wife's obligations
hahapong ho matua~you're getting old
hahapong lupa annon~I'll forget later
haholongan angkang margoar~sister's lover named
haholongan na ambolong~lost lover
haholongan na lam~increasing love
haholongan ni roha~beloved
haholonganhu di parompuan~my favorite for women
haholonganna dibuat jolma~his lover was taken
hahomion na patar~pray
hahundulon manang tohonan~position or position
hahuranganna adongma hahuranganhi~his flaws are my flaws
haisan dampol pathu~darling massage my feet
hajahaton dibalos hadengganon~evil is rewarded with good
hajanghajang na jagar~beautiful horizon
halakna muse lao~the person is leaving
halalapan mantat mara~negligence results in danger
halalas ni roha~excitement
haleluia marende ma~Hallelujah, sing along
halenseng di roha~doubt in my heart
halibutongan di roha~rainbow in the heart
halibutongan di rohahi~rainbow in my heart
halilu alimos mi~your shadow
halomoon hu ni~that's my favorite
halomoon sa ibana~his favorite
hamagoan anak sadasadana~lost his only child
hamajuon bagas raksa~progress in science
hamaloon dohot hagogoon~intelligence and strength
hamaloon dohot marutokutok~cleverness and wisdom
hamaolhon ma parjuanganhu~appreciate my struggle
hamaolhon saotik haroroanhu~appreciate my presence a little
hamat nasida mararga~consider them valuable
hamat parhundul tulen~consider native
hami anak parompuanna~we are his daughters
hami deang damang~we are father's ladies-in-waiting
hami holan mangihut~we just follow
hami holan mardongan~we are just friends
hami kaluarga batak~we are a Batak family
hami ma manisia~we are humans
hami manabur holong~we sow love
hami mangalopi panesa~we ask for forgiveness
hami mangalopi santabi~we are sorry
hami mangasi mi~we love you
hami mansai lomo~we really like it
hami manuhor topi~we bought a hat
hami maralangan ro~we were unable to come
hami marmeam rap~we played together
hami marsi mangurupi~we help each other
hami maruhom diri~we kept quiet
hami na parjolo~we came first
hami na tarpusa~we are the ones suffering
hami naeng mangebati~we will visit
hami nangkin manogot~us this morning
hami naung mohopan~we're already hot
hami ndada mandodo~we didn't expect it
hami ndada margolle~we are helpless
hami ni parmabuk~we are drunks
hami paima parrona~we are waiting for your presence
hami parsidohot balang~we are loyal followers
hami parungkil borngin~we are night warriors
hami ra laok~we want to join
hami ra mandulo~we want to visit
hami ro pasahathon~we come to deliver
hami sandok parkarejo~we are all employees
hami sikkolana dia~where do we go to school?
hamlet rampak ho~girlfriend with you
hamlethu anak ranto~My boyfriend is a local boy
hamlethu dibuat jolma~My boyfriend was taken by someone
hamlethu padohot duansa~My boyfriend is both
hamlethu ramot tarnok~my girlfriend fell asleep safely
hamlethu suman posoposo~My boyfriend looks like a baby
hamonangan bagas batak~victory in Batak language
hamoraon hauararon nipi~wealth, glory, dreams
hamoraon marrindang hasangapon~wealth hereditary honor
hamsar dohot lemes~smooth and seamless
hamsar hatahu pa~I'm fluent in the language, right?
hamsar sasudena oromna~everything went smoothly fasting
hamu boi paturehon~you can fix it
hamu do tupa~maybe you
hamu halakna kanji~you are a starch
hamu ilik ponggol~you stump lizard
hamu ma halakna~you are the one
hamu pande huang~you are a handyman
hamu panghasoloman balu~you are a widow fan
hamu parago kanji~you deny kanji
hamu puna pungkul~do you have marbles?
hamu ra rungap~you want to get banged
hamubaon punsa pikkir~change in mindset
hamuliaon sagi jahoba~glory to Allah
hamuma na tarsumurung~you are the special one
hamuna anak rumar~you are an illegitimate child
hamuna luhut jugul~you are all stupid
hamuna ndada sada~you guys are not solid
hamuna tontuhon uarnana~you decide the color
hamuna uhal ahaon~what are you discussing?
hamuna unang mangalo~you guys don't fight
hanataan tudos mangondam~reality seems threatening
handang mangan suansuanan~plant eating fence
handit jomuran baju~lift the clothesline
handit tanganmu suhi~raise your hand sideways
hangar ho ou~are you hungry?
hangoluon na paet~bitter life
hansit anggo dituriturihon~it hurts to tell
hansit butuha bernit~sore stomach ache
hansit butuha mangalit~twisting stomach ache
hansit digarar ngolu~life pays for pain
hansit hian rohahi~I feel really sick
hansit hot mengkel~sick but still laughing
hansit huhilala ho~I think you're sick
hansit loni huhilalahon~I feel sick sometimes
hansit lumpu mate~sick paralyzed death
hansit parlakkuon mi~your treatment hurts
hansit pat annon~sore feet later?
hansit sahali tanggurunghi~my back really hurts
hansit sahali tangkasna~it definitely hurts
hansit sahit pangunjunan~sick of temptation
hansit sipareon hu~my ear hurts
hansit sirimpuson pathu~my toes hurt
hansit ulu ulu~headache
hansit uluhu marpikkir~I have a headache thinking about it
hansur andorang halaoanna~destroyed since he left
hansur kuena annon~crumble the cake later
hansur lala rohahi~my heart is broken
hansur pinggolhu huhilala~I think my ears are crushed
hansur rohahi on~my heart is broken
hansurhon ondeng jolmana~just destroy the humans
hapas dohot eme~cotton and rice
hape ho sahiti~apparently you're sick
hape jeges dope~even though it's still good
hape pas ditiru~apparently suitable for example
hapian tu angkang~Salute to you brother
hapit i andora~pin it on the chest
haporluon hangoluon manisia~needs of human life
haporluon lobi godang~more needs
haporseaon na porhot~firm faith
haporseaonmu na paluahon~your faith saves
harajaon mi ro~your kingdom come
harang umbak mataniari~sun wave coral
haratma anggo boi~bite it if you can
harbue sada solup~one liter of rice
harimpang bunga bunga~a rose
haroro ni naniula~harvest
haroroan na denggan~good arrival
haroroanmu mambahen ahu~your arrival made me
harotas harotas ni~the paper
harotas manuhor balanjo~shopping paper
haru asi hu~especially my darling
haru beta dialap~let alone let's get picked up
haru etongan maninga~let alone math
haru i pareso~please review
haru masala mara~let alone the problem of the epidemic
haru rohana ibana~especially his heart
haru sala angkang~what's more, it's my brother's fault
haru tatapan matana~especially the look in his eyes
hasangapon dohot hahuasoon~honor and power
hasea bagas parkarejoanna~successful in his work
hasea di ranto~success overseas
hasea ni tuptup~success is a decision
hasea tongtong bahenmu~success always for you
hasehatonmu ho radot~you take care of your health
hasesega na tonggi~sweet mischief
hasian hu nabung~my favorite is bald
hasian hu sintahi~my darling my love
hasian ni tulang~unfortunately uncle
hasianna ibana marbangko~unfortunately he is
hasianna inang baju~aunt's favorite
hasiholan ra mulak~longing to go home
hasintongan na paluahon~liberating truth
hasintongon na naingkon~absolute truth
hasior dohot gambiri~kencur and candlenut
hasomalan pidong tutu~chirping bird hobby
hasomalon au lange~My hobby is swimming
hasomalon loni ma~it's a habit
hasomalon mi laos~your habit indeed
hassa mata sali~borrowed glasses
hasuharan ganti margonti~problems come and go
hasusuda ni bohal~death
ardang~poetry
habahaba~thunderbolt
mandiori~traces
mangalualu~reporting
hata beta martani~said let's farm
hata dodot bonosan~condolences
hata hata angkangna~said his brother
hata hata mangolap~opposing words
hata manomba bagas~words of deep adoration
hata na denggan~advice
hata na denggan~advice
hata na uli~advice
hata na uli~advice
hata nasida laos~he said later
hata panaru mangan~foreword
hata pangondong amang~greeting sir
hata pikkiran hu~my mind said
hata tulen pusok~navel pure language
hatahatam balga sahali~your talk is very big
hatahatam sakalas huang~your talk is classy
hatana timbo sahali~he speaks very high
hatigoran dohot hatigoran~honesty and justice
hatigoran dohot pangondian~justice and protection
hatigoran na dilopokhon~honesty comes first
hatop annon mosok~Hurry up and it will burn
hatop bahen pestana~hurry up and make the party
hatop eol marsogot~move quickly tomorrow
hatop eol sa~move quickly
hatop hian ditongos~very quickly sent
hatop hipas mulak~get back to health quickly
hatop hobas pa~pack it quickly
hatop ma marjumpa~hurry up and see you
hatop malumma anaha~get well soon my son
hatop malumma ho~get well soon
hatop manombo sahitna~the disease recurs quickly
hatop mardomu rongkapmi~quickly meet your soul mate
hatop musem hasasahat~arrived quickly too
hatop olo alusna~answer quickly
hatop sahali ditongos~very quickly sent
hatop sahali sonsang~wears off very quickly
hatotong ho olo~you're surprised, aren't you?
hau purba jolma~I'm ancient human
haulion kota dengke~the beauty of the fish city
haulion na malambut~beautiful beauty
hauma i gurgari~rice fields were destroyed
hauma na lomak~fertile fields
hea hita mandalani~we have experienced
hea ho tompa~you have ever created
hea meam domino~Have you ever played dominoes?
heang ai digadis~Why are the private parts being sold?
heang ompung boru~Grandma's vagina
hebo dohot hebo~noisy and excited
hebo loni ho~you're excited
hela dainang mi~your mother's daughter-in-law
helhul hian ho~you're bothering me
hepeng boi didiori~money can be found
hepeng dalanna jeges~the money is good
hepeng hu marlaslas~my money is running low
hepeng ndang huling~money doesn't sound
hepeng ndang tarhira~immeasurable money
hepeng niba marlaslas~my money is running out
hepeng pature sintamu~money rules your love
hepeng sopola suang~money without series
hepenghi ditangko hamlethu~My girlfriend stole my money
hepenghi ndang godang~I don't have much money
hepengna di rumbungan~the money is saved
hepengna dibagi dua~the money is divided in half
hepengna tongtong tarpangke~the money is always used
heta inum tuak~let's drink palm wine
heu dohot heu~tired and lethargic
heu sahali au~I'm so tired
hian au mangan~I was eating
hian dobar ma~very fast
hian lam rundut~the rules are getting more complicated
hian laos apala~that's the rule
hibung mi lunjung~Your seeds are oval
himpu sopola bolat~gathering without limits
hinaganjang marga panggabean~stands for the Panggabean clan
hinan au duma~Formerly. I have enough
hipas ma daging~be healthy
hipas pa dirim~you're healthy
hira dilani tanggiling~hypocritical
hira hira hutanda~I think I know
hirana langit mabola~may the sky split
hirana tuhan mangalean~may God give
hirang manuhor balanjo~shopping cart
hirim ni roha~hope
hirimonna tudos ido~the hope is like that
hita anture ama~we need father
hita arbas ma~we'll leave
hita asang pa~we're reliable, right?
hita boi mangasanghon~we can rely on
hita dipunsu dinamarsirang~we are on the verge of parting
hita ebati ibana~we go to him
hita gunsang pa~let's shake it up
hita huria parmonang~we are a winning people
hita lengse ma~we'll kill it
hita mampuna pinarsinta~we have desires
hita manghatahatai nonang~we talk
hita marpananginangian hian~let's listen first
hita marsiajar inong~we learn, mother
hita muse padaodao~we're far apart
hita naeng busbus~we will soon
hita naeng mamatos~we'll get started
hita naung marumur~we are old
hita pangaranto sailaon~we are immigrants from the same fate
hita pangus tokke~we rob the boss
hita pola suba~we have to try
hita pudun pardonganon~we have a brotherhood
hita rimrim pardosa~we are both sinners
hita sadihari marlange~when can we swim?
hita tangkang ibana~we rob him
hita tardokhon dohot~we call it with
ho aha baritana~how are you?
ho alusna leleng~you answered a long time ago
ho anak benda~you're a slow kid
ho anak mansoadahon~you are a naughty child
ho anak sibolis~you are the devil's child
ho au bada~I beat you
ho balos surathu~you reply to my letter
ho bangso aha~what nation are you?
ho bangso batak~are you Batak?
ho beuk sahit~you are immune to disease
ho binatang hurje~you are livestock
ho birat hian~you are so plump
ho boasa lungun~why are you sad?
ho boasa oto~why are you stupid?
ho boi jumahana~can you read it?
ho bontean parpudi~you are the last port
ho borua ulihu~you, my beautiful girl
ho buat punahu~you take mine
ho buruk sabanua~you're the world's worst
ho diparhatoban sinta~you are enslaved by love
ho do sihapor~you are a grasshopper
ho dongan panoroni~you're a step friend
ho dope toruk~you're still low
ho haberenganna daoldaolon~you look pale
ho hamlet hembang~you're blooming girlfriend
ho hebo sahali~you're so excited
ho hosinghon rohahi~you turned my heart back
ho huang bodat~you nosy monkey
ho hurang gisi~you're malnourished
ho ido garapus~you are careless
ho ido sipangago~you are a liar
ho ihut namnam~you feel it too
ho itona bodat~you are the monkey's brother
ho itona olo~you're his brother yeah
ho jaotjaot hudia~where have you lost your way?
ho la nampunasa~you are the owner
ho laos punahu~you are mine
ho lea inonghu~you insult my mother
ho lomo dangdut~you like dangdut
ho ma teni~you're the bitch
ho malo margait~you're good at being funny
ho manangko hepenghi~you stole my money
ho mangalehon hagompison~you give health
ho mangarunjak rohahi~you stabbed my heart
ho mangasta itomu~You underestimate your brother
ho manggiothon roha~you are exciting
ho marende olo~you sing yeah
ho marhatai ahaon~what are you talking about?
ho marlingkit birong~you are black
ho marpahu rujiruji~you are too calculating
ho martongtang musem~you fight too
ho mate marsogot~you die tomorrow
ho modommu sihit~you sleep on your side
ho mora bibi~you're like a duck
ho mussat kabupaten~you move districts
ho na bagudung~you're the rat
ho na borjong~you're the one who's sick
ho na hodar~you are unclean
ho na huhaholongi~you are the one I love
ho na otoan~you're the stupid one
ho na pargabus~you are a liar
ho na tarlengket~you are the most beautiful
ho naeng hudia~where are you going?
ho nari bilolangon~are you still nervous?
ho naung dehengdehengon~you are old
ho naung oroan~you're engaged
ho naung pulik~you're separated
ho ndada auhon~you don't admit it
ho ndada tang~you are not perfect
ho ngalian olo~You're cold, aren't you?
ho ni sioloan~you are a role model
ho nian hudia~where do you want to go?
ho pa punahu~you're mine
ho padokoni sasudena~you tell me everything
ho pala tongam~you are very impressive
ho pande langkup~you are a cheater
ho pangallang antuasu~you are a wolf eater
ho pangallang panangga~you are a dog eater
ho panondang rohahi~you are the light of my heart
ho pardijabu sa~you are his wife
ho pargomgom hami~you are our protector
ho patut diarihon~you deserve to have it
ho pe marhamulian~you are also married
ho puna haurakon~you have a genitals
ho puna pungkul~do you have marbles?
ho puna tungkot~you have a stick
ho ra dibasbas~you want to be hit,
ho ra mussat~you want to move
ho ra roti~you want bread
ho rittik undukhon~are you crazy?
ho saingkondo mamuhul~you should make sure
ho salaksak olo~you're bald huh?
ho sihapor tami~you praying mantis
ho sikkolana dia~where do you go to school?
ho sodap ndang~are you good or not?
ho songon lombu~you're like a cow
ho songon lubaklubak~you're like a drain
ho songon sibagur~you're like a frog
ho suman bagong~you look like a bagong
ho suman hoda~you look like a horse
ho sungkun au~you ask me?
ho susa diantusi~you're hard to understand
ho tanggo jo~you look first
ho tete salaoar~you pooped your pants
ho tigatiga daong~are you selling or not?
ho tudos aili~you're like a wild boar
ho tudos birubiru~you are like a sheep
ho ugamona aha~what your religion?
ho unang bangkol~don't hesitate
ho unang mamarengkeli~don't laugh
hobar balok parsahutaon~discuss environmental boundaries
hoda na jeges~nice horse
hodar mangan babi~it is unclean to eat pork
hoding bahen ho~special for you
hohom tokkin boasa~it's quiet for a moment
hoji anak parompuan~want a daughter
hoji inum kopi~want to drink coffee
hoji mangan joring~want to eat jengkol
hojot mamburju asi~get better soon darling
holan boi manangisi~can only lament
holan boi manganju~can only understand
holan boi sabam~can only surrender
holan bolus ende~just through songs
holan di passorion~just for socializing
holan ganti dalhop~just copy paste
holan ginjang holongna~just for his love
holan gombar doi~that's just a picture
holan ho rongkaphu~only you are my soul mate
holan isi bagason~there's only the inside
holan jolma tartontu~only certain people
holan kombur nama~it's just a lie
holan laho meam~just to play
holan lao marollok~just to fuck
holan manungkun ondeng~just asking
holan manungkun ondeng~just asking
holan margait au~I'm just kidding
holan martata suping~just smile
holan panortor ter~just an asphalt dancer
holan patunggomhon alusan~just match the answers
holan peak ondeng~just lie down
holan pinsangpinsang bonar~just a warning
holan sabiji orbuk~just a speck of dust
holan sada hagogoonhi~my only strength
holan sintap manghaholongi~just love
holan tading ingoton~only memory remains
holan tuli tokkin~just stopping for a moment
holang diangan angan~dream distance
holangholang hita mardua~between the two of us
holangholang ni ma~between those
holangna di radot~the distance is maintained
holi tanggurung tondong~the backbone of the family
holina sian baja~the bones are made of steel
holit ho angkang~you're stingy, brother
holom tudos ngoluhu~dark like my life
holong au ditulak~my love was rejected
holong diribak ra~it's a shame it's torn
holong maap ma~darling, I'm sorry
holong mambahensa mangangguk~love makes him cry
holong matamu tulang~love your eyes uncle
holong na ambal~blown love
holong na sonap~overflowing love
holong na tondan~hindered love
holong ndang tarpasidinghon~inseparable love
holong ni burabura~love is a curse
holong ni damar~love the resins
holong parjolo ninna~first love he said
holong sipata marhusip~love sometimes whispers
holong sungkot panumpak~love is blocked by blessing
holong tongtong mamodomhon~love always lulls
holonghi na hiltung~my round darling
holonghi na maras~my darling is concerned
holso di hapala~complained to the leader
hombang hita luhut~all of us on average
hombar jabu rampa~nosy neighbors
hona gotani torus~keeps getting hit by the sap
hona pudun mangolu~got caught in a snare
hona sillam annon~get hit by lightning later
hondo ni roha~mourning
hopal giot harom~the ship almost sank
hopal ido porot~the ship got stuck
hopal na habang~flying plane
hopal tongtang hu~my fighter plane
hora inam lapatan~civet inam meaning
horas asal dia~hello where are you from?
horas borua parungkil~hello warrior girl
horas goarhu ianakhon~hello my name is bani
horas sipujion pasupasu~hello blessing image
horbo marbada tambing~buffalo clashing horns
horong hita do~our people
hosinghon do hamuna~come back, you guys
hot bonar angkanghu~keep the spirit up my brother
hot diingot ai~still remember it
hot gabe sioloan~remain a role model
hot ma martuani~stay grateful
hot serak hadengganon~keep spreading kindness
hot suping ou~keep smiling yeah
hot toruk roha~stay humble
hotma anggo ido~that's fine then
hotma ido angkang~that's great, brother
hu balos parangem~I will respond to your behavior
hu bangkol marroha~I'm reluctant to think
hu bura ho~I curse you
hu dok tuani~I say thanks
hu gaji hu~I have my salary
hu galmit annon~I'll pinch it later
hu gorga hatami~I'll paint your words
hu gotil annon~I'll answer later
hu gotil pinggolmu~I'll pinch your ears
hu gotil sipareon~I prick my ears
hu hansurhon luhut~I destroy everything
hu hilalahon hadameon~I feel peace
hu husip pa~I whispered
hu lengse annon~I'll kill it later
hu mangangguk marsurasura~I cried imagining
hu matehon ho~I'll turn you off
hu muningan jo~I'll ask first
hu pale babami~I'll hit your mouth
hu pinsang ho~I warn you
hu ponggolhon pidongmu~I'll break your bird
hu sulang ra~I'll bribe you
hu tandai bohim~I'll mark your face
hu tenju ho~I'll punch you
hu topari babami~I'll slap your mouth
hu topari babana~I slapped his mouth
hualusi olo tuhan~I said yes, God
huang ho godang~you have a lot of nose
huang ho huduru~your nose comes out
huantuk puntar ho~I'll hit you
hubahen asa sinok~I'll do it to be safe
hubege basabasam tuat~I heard your blessings came down
hubege ramot ro~I heard welcome
hubereng tu ginjang~I looked up
huboan bagas tangiang~I carry it in prayer
hudali bahen garut~a hoe for scratching
hudia au dipaianhon~where am I placed?
hudia dia marsak~everywhere, too late
hudia ho handehande~where are you shawl?
hudia ho jaotjaot~where did you get lost?
hudia ibana ulaning~where the hell is he?
hudia panompang on~where is this passenger?
hudokhon bagas roha~I said in my heart
huduru aek simalolonghi~my tears came out
huduru hata biangna~the dog said
huduru hatahata biangna~came out the dog's words
huduru sian parungkilan~out of sadness
hugalmit butuha mi~I pinch your stomach
huhaol gomos las~I hugged him tightly warmly
huhaol ho ondeng~I'll just hug you
huhira hita mardomu~I think we met
huhut mameolhon bohi~while bending his face
huhut marende marende~while singing singing
huhut marganda dohar~and increase your fortune
huhut marhuarar dohar~and abundant sustenance
huhut paeserhon banjar~while moving the row
huhut torus mangalului~while continuing to search
huingot tona mi~I remember your message
hujaga sintahi bahenmu~I keep my love for you
hum hamuna nabodari~Can you bear it last night?
humutur jo hita~let's sway first
hundul di emper~sitting on the terrace
hundul ma hamuna~sit down, you guys
hundulan kareta angin~bicycle stand
hundulma i i~sit there
hunik dohot ijo~yellow and green
hunik pege halas~turmeric ginger galangal
hunsi sonang tondong~the key to a happy family
hunsina holan dua~there are only two keys
hupaboa pe annon~I'll tell you later
hupaboa sasara marponggolponggol~I'll tell you in stages.
hupaboa tu ama~I'll tell father
hupaima asal tangkas~I'll wait for sure
hupamate annon ho~I'll turn you off later
hupamate hamuna annon~I'll turn you off later
hupamate ho annon~I'll turn you off later
hupamate ma ho~I'll kill you
hupangido tu tuhan~I ask God
hupas dohot soldadu~police and army
hupasahat isi rohahi~I convey my heart
hupikkir tutung panangga~I think burn the dog
hurak na bagas~dig deep
hurang edang ni~less of a picnic
hurang guitan ibana~lack of touch
hurang hua marata~less vegetable sauce
huria dohot huria~hurria and sect
huria na marhamaolhon~concerned people
huria todoan jahoba~God's chosen people
huribak baba mi~I'll rip your mouth open
huroa boi laos~maybe it could be forgotten
huroa hita marlae~maybe we'll be in-laws
hurumna balga hian~his cheeks are really big
hurungan toru tano~Underground jail
husip hamuna panangga~whisper you dogs
husiphon tu alogo~whisper to the wind
husor ende dangdut~play dangdut songs
husuba pasiding panailian~I try to avoid looking
huta adaran timbo~highland area
huta bulan bolus~cross moon area
huta dalan bolus~crossroad area
huta lambung jabuhu~the area around my house
huta maradong serep~the village is below
huta na ribur~city
hutam beha sonang~how is your village? safe?
huting patna opat~cat has four legs
hutiop ma tiang~I hold the pole
hutiop tangan ho~I'll hold your hand
i albas umbak~crashed by the waves
i dalan santopak~on the footpath
i genggeng mataniari~in the hot sun
i huta ri~in the village of Lalang
i jomuran pudi~in the back clothesline
i lasiak ibana~in Lombok him
i ruar panagaman~unexpected
i simpang opat~at the intersection
ia tunda musu~if the enemy fines
ianakhon loak hian~really stupid kid
ias bona hipas~clean, healthy base
ias ni roha~honesty
iba do ni~that's his account
ibana ate rongkapmi~he is not your soul mate
ibana be tuluar~he's out
ibana disoroni idia~where is he being treated?
ibana ditiopi hupas~he was detained by the police
ibana giot mangaranap~he wanted to reflect
ibana hansurhon ho~he destroyed you
ibana la nampunasa~he is the owner
ibana lomona inum~he likes drinking
ibana ma parmonang~he is the winner
ibana mabilhak harungguan~he split the crowd
ibana mambolonghon pipi~he looked away
ibana maribak harotas~he tore the paper
ibana marsuru hatoban~he ordered the servant
ibana mudar batak~he is Batak blood
ibana nari marhamulian~he is still married
ibana ni roa~he's ugly
ibana padimposhon barang~he tidies things up
ibana parlakku sa~he is the perpetrator
ibana silangko bius~he lacks anesthesia
ibana tongtong dilambungmu~he is always near you
ibanape dang porsea~he didn't believe it either
iboto sa tarida~his brother came up
iboto sisolhot au~my siblings
ibu kota medan~the capital city of Medan
ida annon panghorhonna~see the consequences later
ida dohot galang~see and support
ida heu melos~see lethargic wilting
ida jo patna~look at his feet first
ida jo tonahu~look at my message first
idaonhu bunbunan ardo~I looked at the pile of questions
idia huta hatutubum~where is your hometown?
idia ibana manuhorna~where did he buy it
idia isi parbornginan~where is there accommodation?
ido apala hehe~he's so lively
ido manaba hau~he cuts down the tree
ido mandoltuk au~he hit me
ido mangagak hambing~he appraised the goat
ido mangardang metmet~he hummed a little
ido muse marlaslas~it's getting thinner
ido ndada iburu~he's not jealous
ido ringgarung marlojong~that's a running deer
ido roha mi~that's what you mean
ido ugari hangoluan~that's normal life
idokkonin dang porsea~said he didn't believe it
ihotihot masi holong~bonding mutual love
ihur amam balga~Your father's butt is big
ihur ho bontar~your butt is white
ihur mi mardaring~Your butt is scabby
ihut angkup marporang~take part in the war
ihut marende bolas~you can sing along
ijuk para para~high palm fibers
ila au sasintongna~I'm really embarrassed
ila ma ila~shame is shame
ila rampak huting~shy about cats
ilmu na jeges~good science
ima leheng au~that's my character
ima na hudok~that's what I said
ima surung au~that's my advantage
ima unang mangalo~that's why don't fight
imbaru banje mangan~just finished eating
imbaru batak marpungu~the Batak just gathered
imbaru hita bapbap~we just beat it
imbaru ho sumolsol~then you regret it
imbaru hu parrohahon~I just noticed
imbaru mangahap serep~just felt under
imbaru marsiajar anju~just learning to understand
imbaru ondeng manubuhon~just gave birth
impas do lae~without exception, right, his brother-in-law
impas sigaret hu~without exception my cigarettes
ina au saor~my mother is slang
ina bou bodat~Mom smells like her armpits
ina na denggan~good mother
ina na mabalu~Widow
inana marsi marsitiopan~her mother holding each other
inana tongtong martona~his mother always said
inang baju panggadis~sales aunt
inang marupahon marnidok~host is meaningful
inang nunga ro~Mom has come
inangmi naung masihol~your mother already misses you
indahan dohot lompanna~rice and side dishes
inganan aek bulu~bamboo water container
inganan di mangalualu~place to complain
inganan na diparbadiai~hallowed place
inganan na marsinondang~radiant place
inganan na roa~seedy place
inganan na sio~shady place
inganan pandita jamita~where the pastor preaches
inganan pangalapan gogo~stopover
inganan panggotapan horbo~buffalo slaughter place
inganan panjouon tondi~place of seance
inganan panongosan barang~deposit box
inganan panutungan rapan~incinerator
inganan paranginanginan parpudi~final resting place
ingkon boi parumbukhon~must be able to adapt
ingkon di tompur~must be hit
ingkon di totar~must be developed
ingkon diain ninna~must be lifted, he said,
ingkon didalani ondeng~just have to do it
ingkon didongani pambahenan~must be accompanied by effort
ingkon i hophop~must be embraced
ingkon idaonhu bohim~I have to see your face
ingkon jogi didalani~must be strong
ingkon lapatani umpasa~must translate the proverb
ingkon lobi marutokutok~should be wiser
ingkon ma denggan~must be good
ingkon ma tontu~of course you have to
ingkon mangajar hagarangon~must exercise courage
ingkon manggerdek dirim~have to seduce yourself
ingkon marsitandaan hita~should get to know us
ingkon paradihon on~have to stop this
ingkon remeng olo~you have to be fussy, okay?
ingkon sohot dohotsa~have to marry him
ingkondo sungkot boli~should the dowry be prevented?
ingot ma tongtong~always remember
ingot ni baio~remember that bro
ingot parpadanan hita~remember our agreement
ingotan tingki lompo~past memories
inona tu bingkas~influence to cause
inong lompa aha~what are you cooking?
inongna ompung boru~grandma's mother
inum aek alkohol~drink alcoholic water
inum ma tambarmu~take your medicine
inumma tambarmu ido~take your medicine
inumonmi ndada diisi~Your drink isn't filled?
iring das bagebage~monitor it until it's finished
ise antongan hamletna~who do you mean the girl
ise barani borontak~who dares to rebel?
ise do gurumu~who is your teacher?
ise dongan saritamu~who is your story friend?
ise goar pungu~what is the full name
ise ho pilat~who are you dick
ise ma au~who am I?
ise ma inonghu~who is my mother?
ise na borontak~who rebelled?
ise na diotoi~who was cheated
ise na ditulak~who was rejected
ise na mabaor~who drifted away?
ise na mandulo~who's visiting?
ise na mangasangi~who is challenging
ise na manggarar~who pays
ise na mangondam~who is threatening
ise na mangontang~who invited
ise na manjujui~who directs
ise na matampuk~who fell
ise na monding~who died
ise na oto~who's stupid?
ise na parbegu~who disbelieves?
ise na pudun~who's dressing up?
ise na tarhurim~who would hope
ise ni marende~who is singing?
ise parlakku sa~who did it?
ise pe marhatingkoshon~anyone admits
ise pinahan hurje~who are livestock
ise ra lapatani~who wants to translate?
ise sambola ho~who's next to you?
isi ae solsol~there is regret
isi aha dohotsa~what's wrong with him?
isi aha joujou~what's calling?
isi aha ulaning~what's wrong
isi angkup muse~There are some more?
isi begu mohopan~there is a ghost in heat
isi bou teni~there is a smell of feces
isi dasi birong~there's black tie
isi di koji~is in the estimation
isi dibahen surathu~Has anyone made my letter?
isi eol sorong~there is a pushing force
isi hasalaan sirimpuson~there is a finger error
isi hepengna ho~do you have any money?
isi hopi dijabum~there is coffee at your house
isi huhilala sahitmu~I think you're sick
isi lange marsogot~there's swimming tomorrow
isi manang ulaning~what is there?
isi marsadi sormin~fill the mirror stop
isi muse ndang~is there anything else?
isi muse peak~there's more lying down
isi na alit~someone was offended
isi na diparsinta~something is desired
isi na ganggang~something is loose
isi na hansar~someone has diarrhea
isi na manganjurhon~someone suggested
isi nasai angkang~there's that much bro
isi padengganhon dalan~there are road repairs
isi panganon dijabum~is there food in your house?
isi panghataion aha~what's the discussion?
isi pangidoan hu~I have a request
isi pangondian do~is there a lawyer?
isi parbogason hamuna~are you related?
isi pigapiga pareso~there are some corrections
isi pitolot mi~there's your pencil
isi ra husungkun~I have something to ask
isi roha niba~there are my thoughts
isi sa ongkos~is there a rental?
isi sa panompang~are there any passengers?
isi sigaret timbaho~there are tobacco cigarettes
isi sinjata ndada~are there any weapons?
isi tahim dongan~You have intentions, friend
isi tingkina dongan~There's time, friend
isi tolu tihus~there are three enemies
isi upaupa di~there's a gift for
isina manisia oto~it's filled with stupid people
isina na ringkot~the content is important
isina sirimpuson luhut~it's all fingers
ito angkat jo~a man's greeting to an adopted female sibling in the past
itu sang sintua~replace the milk teeth of the church board
jabu dohot tarup~house and roof
jabu muse dipadenggan~Is the house being repaired?
jabu na andal~the house is beautiful
jabuhu longo sahali~my house is very quiet
jadi ma sigomgom~be the ruler
jae mandege huta~back and forth
jaga di tompur~watch out for being hit
jaga diharat babiat~Watch out for being bitten by a tiger
jaga diharat karo~Watch out for being bitten by the Karo language
jaga ho porso~watch out you're lying
jaga isi pirus~Watch out for viruses
jaga ma arim~take care of your day
jaga ma parsadaan~keep unity
jaga manggerdek ibana~watch out for seducing him
jaga pasiding harungguan~Be careful, avoid crowds
jaga porotan ho~watch your back.
jaga rinsan harotasna~Watch out for tearing the paper
jaga tading siding~watch out, just move aside
jaga tarbali tokke~Watch out it's contagious boss
jaga tokke rimas~Watch out, boss is angry
jaga tundal ho~Watch out you're upside down
jago ma holi~good bones
jagung robus sada~one corn on the cob
jaha dohot sulingkit~read carefully
jahoba asal pasupasu~God is the source of blessings
jahoba maga tigor~Allah is most just
jahoba nunga patoranghon~Allah has explained
jait jo bajuhu~sew my clothes first
jala para dongan~high net my friend
jalo asi anggia~thank you sis
jalo asi angkiningan~Thank you in advance
jalo asi pinasingot~thanks for the reminder
jalo asi tokke~thank you boss
jalo asi turgasna~thanks for the advice
jama panggul angkang~hold your hips
jaman bojak susa~frog times are hard
jaman naung sanggih~times are sophisticated
jaman tu otoan~age of stupidity
jambar joro manisia~part of the human temple
jambar sian risa~part of philosophy
jambi didia sa~Jambi where is it?
jambu kulit hitam~koling guava
jambulan au lohot~my hair is sticky
jambulan au ropang~my hair fell out
jambulan balbal~dreadlocks
jambulan ho dangar~your hair is dry
jamu muse didia~where are the herbs?
janggola jambulan ho~pull your hair
janggola ngingi sa~grab his teeth
janjela dohot tarup~windows and roof
janjela na dia~which window?
jarijari kareta angin~bicycle spokes
jeges anak parbue~good guys
jeges do hamlethu~my boyfriend is good
jeges do soarana~the sound is good
jeges do tompahu~I look good
jeges hatam ido~that's good what you said
jeges hian ruas~really good temperature
jeges hita sundur~good let's talk about it
jeges jambulan mi~your hair is nice
jeges jeges totar~good good develop
jeges manukna tulang~good chicken uncle
jeges ni hau~that's a nice tree
jeges podoman sa~the mattress is good
jeges sahali anggulimanna~what a nice saying
jeges tutu loguna~the song is really good
jejeron rodi pinomparna~descendant order
jempek alai marnidok~short but meaningful
jengeng hape bohihu~How scary does my face look?
jesus dalan hasintongon~Jesus is the way of truth
jesus dididi johannes~Jesus was baptized John
jesus pande ramot~Jesus the Savior
jesus sipargogo ngoluhu~Jesus is my life helper
jesus uluhon ma~Jesus, lead
jo au mangalongangi~I used to admire.
jogi bagas pardonganon~strong in brotherhood
jogi di podoman~strong in bed
johajoha palito porlak~theft of garden lights
jojak jojak bulung~traces of leaf tracks
jolma batak dialo~the Batak people were resisted
jolma batak jogi~tough Batak people
jolma batak lumban~village Batak people
jolma batak tuba~Batak people are fierce
jolma bou bangke~people smell like carcasses
jolma bura manseret~Kualat people have diarrhea
jolma di longang~people stared
jolma hita dison~our people are here
jolma hita do~our people?
jolma jaua disungkun~Javanese people asked
jolma jaua tarida~Javanese people show up
jolma jolma ansi~hypocritical people
jolma jolma mambaritahon~people report
jolma jolma namalo~educated people
jolma marabit rara~people in red
jolma na buas~royal man
jolma na dihabiari~feared person
jolma na gait~prankster
jolma na mararga~valuable person
jolma na maruarar~famous person
jolma ndada banje~people are wrong
jolma ni jugul~that person is stubborn
jolma ni malo~that person is clever
jolma parbagasan ido~the inland people
jolma pogosna au~I'm a poor person
jolma rittik tarida~crazy people come out
jolma tihas sadia~how many used people?
jolmajolma mardalan tota~people walk orderly
jolmana di hudia~where are the humans?
jombing umbahen bait~bad happens because it fits
jongir hape bohihu~does my face look scary?
jongir pinsur parsiajaran~scary Sharp lesson
jongir sahali ho~you're so scary
jongirna holong on~this love is cruel
jongirna nasida tuhan~God, how cruel they are
jonok dohot papunguhon~close to collecting
jora au tuhan~I repent, God
jora ma asi~understand, darling
jora orom on~repent of this fast
jorat bara manuk~chicken coop binding
jorat manang rante~fastener or chain
jorbut loni pambahenanmi~What a terrible thing you did
jorbut paltappaltap mi~Your slap is scary
joro ni debata~church
jotjot boha pe~often anything
jotjot dijambak obukhu~I often get my hair pulled
jotjot manunsi tangan~wash your hands frequently
jou au tokke~call me boss
jou goragora porsan~call pelvic call
jugul hian ho~you're so stubborn
jugul ni roha~perseverance
jugul sa on~this is stubborn
jujung timbo olo~uphold it, yes
jujung timbo pardonganon~uphold brotherhood
jullong bagas logo~floods in the dry season
jullong dohot habahaba~floods and typhoons
jullong sabagas aha~how deep is the flood?
jumahat hala sia~Friday the ninth
jumpa pardagingon arbas~meet you guys
jumpangi jo ondeng~just meet him first
jumpangmu parjolo loni~meeting you for the first time
jungkat sahali bangkona~very evil in nature
jungkat unang tinodo~Don't point out evil
juo mi gale~Your sperm is weak
jus gundur kambona~turmeric stem juice
justeru maruhom diri~actually kept quiet
kaen na mangohop~warm cloth
kaen ulos pinatupa~Ulos cloth is provided
kalapa dohot itak~coconut and flour
kalas uluhon marminggu~devotional leadership class
kale alai sanding~friends but enemies
karejo di bontean~work at the port
karejo ingkon bontis~work has to be done
karejo ma inong~work, mom
karejo na bongak~great work
karejo sopola maradi~work without a break
karejohonma turgas ni~do that task
karejona modom maos~I just sleep all the time
karejona ndada natingkos~the work is not of good quality
karejona pasudahon hepeng~the work costs money
kareta angin hole~paddle bike
kareta naung leleng~classic train
karosi hami nata~our seats were separated.
karupuk siak tabo~delicious spicy chips
kilo adong saotik~there are few kilos
kobunna bolak anggihi~My sister has a large garden
kopi dua galas~two glasses of coffee
kopi sipulut pareso~control sticky rice coffee
kopi taratara hita~our taste of coffee
kopi taratara hu~my taste of coffee
laba haduan pakansi~luckily the day after tomorrow is holiday
labana au porso~Luckily I lied
labilabi disiram orbuk~worms doused with ash
labilabi gabe naga~worms become dragons
labilabi gabe ulok~worms become snakes
labu matobang rohai~gather those mature feelings
lae muse aha~what's up with my brother-in-law?
lagak anak tata~handsome papa son
lagak di tingkina~handsome at the time
lagak dohot tongam~handsome and dignified
lagak hian ho~you are very handsome
lagak on baoa~this handsome man
lagak sahali donganhu~very handsome my friend
lagak sahali hamlethu~my boy is very handsome
lalap lanok salpu~careless flies ago
lam godang dosamu~the more your sins increase
lam godang hamletna~more and more girlfriends
lam hu dilambungmu~the closer I get to you
lam manggiothon roha~increasingly exciting
lam poso lihi~getting younger & slimmer
lambang sopola hamuna~empty without you
lambas ni roha~patience
lambat tua napaet~slow bitter luck
lambok i pardolokan~cool in the mountains
lampak mata hansit~sore eyelids
lampis bagas sipatu~inner layer of shoe
lamu anture manggombar~draw more neatly
lamu bagak asi~more beautiful, darling
lamu bagak donganhu~it's getting cooler my friend
lamu bongak donganhu~more handsome my friend
lan na disurat~whatever is written
lange ho marsogot~are you swimming tomorrow?
langit maruarna balau~the sky is blue
langka hambirang siamun~step left right
langka hita tudiape~wherever we go
langkati sisik antirha~Peel the cassava skin
langkup dipudi hu~cheating behind my back
langkup ibana ni~he's cheating on her
langkuponmu idia dia~where are your mistresses?
lanjahon ulaula paraktek~bring practice tools
lanok porhis huting~flies, ants, cats
lanok porhis labilabi~worm ant flies
lanok porhis labilabi~flies, ants, worms
lantang adong ma~loud is
lao an rongit~go there mosquitoes
lao buri pinggan~go wash the dishes
lao dohot tondongna~went with his family
lao manaruhon ama~go and send father
lao mangumpat gadong~go pull the sweet potatoes
lao martandang musem~I want to date too
lao parjolo au~I'll go first
lao sorong pikkir~go, push, think
laok batak jaua~mixed with Javanese Batak
laok roha hu~join I mean
laoma dohot dame~go in peace
laoma modom hamuna~go to sleep you guys
laos anak tolping~indeed a child of the cliff
laos bahen aha~then what do you do?
laos dabodabo hanataanna~that's the reality
laos hanataanna apala~that's the reality
laos ida holonghu~take a look my love
laos ingkon pungu~it must be complete
laos ingkon sajabu~you have to be at home
laos lilian ou~it is indeed affected, yes
laos marsali ombak~then borrow a hoe
laos pangido dipamate~really asked to be turned off
laos partompuran marudut~then the battle continued
laos saingkondo beha~how should it be?
laos suhu sa~he's an expert
laos tahina apala~that's the intention
laos tarbarita tongamnai~he is famous for being handsome
lapa sarupa medan~surgery in the same field
lapatan ale jahoba~the meaning of ale jahowa
lapatan anak siampudan~meaning youngest child
lapatan bagong bagas~deep bagong meaning
lapatan debata jahoba~meaning of debatea jahowa
lapatan diabithon suhul~meaning worn by the handle
lapatan goar sigop~The meaning of the name swift
lapatan hata ditata~the meaning of the word dipapah
lapatan hata ditogu~the meaning of the word guided
lapatan hata ditonun~the meaning of the word woven
lapatan hata ranum~the meaning of the word ripe
lapatan hata saringan~meaning of the word filter
lapatan hata suhat~the meaning of the word taro
lapatan hata titi~the meaning of the word titi
lapatan ianakhon bulang~meaning of bani headdress
lapatan lotak palo~meaning of hammer knock
lapatan musa bagas~the meaning of musa in
lapatan ni bandit~meaning of pickpockets
lapatan ompungna bagas~the meaning of his grandfather is deep
lapatan panaru bagas~meaning of introduction in
lapatan partonggol barani~the meaning of the barani banner
lapatan sian anduri~meaning of tampi
lapatan sian siaha~meaning of who
lapatan sobo banua~the meaning of healing the universe
lapatan tonggi jambu~meaning of sweet guava
lapatan ulaon sending~the meaning of the sending feast
lapatan upa~the meaning of wages
lapatanna aha puang~what does it mean, friend?
lapatanna boi dipahabis~meaning it can be defeated
lapatanna tigor saor~it means slang tigor
lapati ho jo~mean you first
lapati sadasa ma~interpret it yourself
lapati tailihon loguna~interpret the song lyrics
lapo anak baju~shirt shop
las ni roha~happiness
las ni roha~excitement
las ni roha~joy
las ni roha~joy
las roha mangiran~enjoys hunting
las roha manomunomu~happy to welcome
las roha mardomu~happy to join
las sibuk mi~warm your flesh
late ni roha~jealous
lau mulak mana~want to go home
leangleang pe targotap~The kite was cut off
lebaran didia ho~Eid where are you?
lehe ido ongkosna~wrong is the cost
leheng na dauk~soft character
lehon hamuna pustahai~give you the letter
lehon nasida gelleng~give them children
leleng hian udur~queued for a long time
leleng musem dasna~it took a long time to arrive
leleng ndada lumba~long time no racing
leleng sahali marsiajarna~it took a long time to learn
lemba ni roha~negligence
lembur molo songoni~overtime then
lenga derek jumpa~Negligent crane found
lengen mangan pere~fun to eat for free
lengse hamuna ma~slaughter you guys
liang pamate ho~I'll kill you
lihi mora lais~slim like plywood
linduatanhu lagak pa~My twin is handsome, right?
listirik urupi maraleale~electricity please be friendly
lobang mabalu lambas~Loose widow's hole
lobi denggan mulana~better at first
lobi jongir martimbanghon~scarier than
lobi mene panglatu~it's better to be single
lobi sian sada~plural
lobi sulingkit muse~more carefully
lobi tabo nipi~it's better to dream
lobu ni pinahan~pen
logo ni ari~dry
logo ni ari~hot
loja au dibahenna~I'm tired of doing it
loja au markarejo~I'm tired of working
loja bagas marsinta~tired of making love
loja boasa huroha~why do you look tired?
loja elek bereng~tired please look
loja elek tanggo~tired please look
loja gabe lok~tired so whatever
loja mangadopi ngoluhu~tired of facing my life
lok ho ma~up to you
lok ma amang~whatever sir
lok ma asi~whatever, darling
lok ma bodat~whatever monkey
lokma asa lomona~let it be whatever it likes
lomak dohot duma~fertile and prosperous
lomak tigor ganjang~lush, straight, long
lomo ateatemma damang~love your heart, son
lomo bonos hangoluon~the ups and downs of life
lomo bonos on~this sadness
lomo ebang arta~likes to show off his wealth
lomo hamuna ma~you guys like it
lomo mangasta jolma~likes to insult people
lomo muba uba~likes to change
lomo ndada markassa~I like not looking in the mirror
lomo ni roha~favorite
lomo ni roha~pleasure
lomo ni roha~favorite
lomo ni roha~appetite
lomo sahali rampa~really likes to be nosy
lomo tarus ho~love your breasts
lomo tingkir jolma~likes to peek at people
lomona mangan aha~what do you like to eat?
lomona marsurasura buruk~likes to be prejudiced
lomos ni roha~worry
lomos ni roha~afraid
lompa bulung gadong~cook sweet potato leaves
lompa dahan an~cook there
lompa dengke saok~cook fried fish
lompa di kode~cook at the shop?
lompa jagal pinahan~cook pork
lompa mangalompa dilompa~cook cook cooked
lompa manuk muse~cooking chicken again?
lompa tolor ni~cook those eggs
lompalompa na angur~fragrant food
lompan aha babi~what side dish? pig?
lompanna aha tulang~what are the side dishes uncle?
longo horong on~this group is quiet
lonong jabu hita~our house sinks
lonsam sa sadia~how much is the total?
losok au mambegesa~I'm lazy to hear it
losok hian pudun~I'm really lazy about dressing up
losung hurummu bagak~your dimples are beautiful
lotak songon dia~what kind of knock?
luangon ni jolma~damn that guy
lubuk baen juo~hole for sperm
luhut boi dipadalan~everything can be done
luhut di arsean~everyone was furious
luhut diajari tumbuk~all were taught boxing
luhut dohar torbang~everything can be missed
luhut emper lebaran~all Eid homepages
luhut habir hepeng~it all depends on money
luhut isi parsaulian~everything has wisdom
luhut marsiajar tumbuk~all learn boxing
luhut naung banje~everything is done
luhut naung oloan~I've done everything
luhut on mandosdos~all this is boring
luhut pangalusina ondol~all the answers are solid
luhut poda on~all these teachings
luhut ragam marhepeng~everyone has money
luhut sa manaritahon~it's all disappointing
luhut tibaltibal pinarade~all offerings are prepared
lulu borua bagakma~look for a beautiful girl
lulu jonoki hansurhon~search, close, destroy
lului balu jo~look for a widow first
lumba dihomat pukul~The competition closes at
lumba dihomat pungkul~Competition closes at 10:00
lumba hampung edang~tourist village competition
lumba ma hita~we're racing
lumban sa lumban~the hamlet is a hamlet
lung buhai bangkol~nature is starting to be reluctant
lungun dibondut sadasa~sad to be swallowed alone
lungun dohot mersep~quiet and dry
lungun laok aor~mixed sadness
lungun loni idaonhu~sad to see
lungun ndang tarhatahon~unspeakable sadness
lungun ni roha~longing
lungun ni roha~sad
lungun ni roha~offended
lungun rohahi mambegesa~I'm sad to hear that
lungunan sonap aganpe~loneliness overflows though
luntur hata on~faded this word
luntur itu boto~fade to replace milk teeth, you know
lupa dohot sasudena~forget everything
lupa jaha tangiang~forget to read prayers
lupa rampak kedanmu~forget about your friends
ma aha bogasna~what's the connection?
ma rap gamang~with fear
maaphon amongmu lapatan~forgive your father Batak meaning
maaphon bohihu olo~forgive my face okay?
maapma anggo ido~sorry if that's the case
mabaor bagas parungkilan~drifting away in sadness
mabaor bagas suasana~lost in the atmosphere
mabaor tarboan umbak~swept away by the waves
mabola botohon sa~split his arm
mabugang boasa rohana~Why does his heart hurt?
madabu aek simalolonghi~my tears fell
maenhon gondang ni~play that drum
maenhon muse loguna~play the song again
maenhon ondeng mamintor~just play straight away
magamaga ni sombaon~glory
magigi loni huhilala~I think it's disgusting
magigi mida mi~disgusted to see you
mago naung pangingani~the occupants are gone
mago sangga didiori~lost when searched
mago sir ngolu~lost passion for life
mago sirsir didiori~lost when looking for it
mahua do dasi~why the tie?
mahua motorna tokke~why the car boss?
maju saotik muse~move forward a little more
makana unang lasak~so don't be silent
malal rampak ho~uncomfortable with you
malangsung dohot hamsar~going on smoothly
male giot mangan~hungry want to eat
male pe ditahan~hunger is suppressed
maliali di hadang~orphaned in clothing
mallo samansam hotang~mallo is a type of rattan
malluga bagas ae~rowing in feeling
malluga hita mardua~we both row
malluga hita rap~row us together
mallumpat sonang ronggur~jump, happy, thunder
malo bahasa batak~fluent in Batak language
malo bahasa batak~good at Batak language
malua sian halipeon~free from falsehood
malua sian panjaja~independent
malua sibuk panangga~dog meat free
malua tangan au~let go of my hand
malua tomu taon~welcome the year
malungun di aha~desire for what?
malungun di ise~wish for whom
mamalu poti marende~playing the piano
mamartida ondeng karejom~just deny your work
mamasang tali sipatu~tie shoelaces
mambagasi hata sa~study his word
mambahen gabe doho~make it honorable
mambahen hebo ondeng~just make noise
mambahen mansut rohahi~makes my heart melt
mambahen mi dabu~makes you fall
mambahen napu ugan~make compost
mambahen parsirangan manjadi~make divorce happen
mambahen tardais rohahi~touched my heart
mambalanjoi anak anak~support children
mambalanjoi basabasa jahoba~live out God's grace
mambaritahon barita nauli~preach the gospel
mambaritahon harajaon jahoba~preach the kingdom of God
mambege ardang mi~hear your humming
mamboan ateate losok~brings pessimistic feelings
mamboan solu hangoluon~carrying a lifeboat
mamboan tangiang pangondianon~bring intercession
mamboan tu jae~take it downstream
mambola dalan ni~split the road
mambola hau tutung~splitting firewood
mambolonghon rapan marsineangan~littering
mambuha pa siholhu~express my longing
mambuha tano imbaru~open new land
mambunu di digagat~kill to eat
mamilit sian dalan~get out of the way
mamintor hobar rampak~chat straight away
mamintor mago rohana~immediately lost the feeling
mamintor martarombo muse~get back together straight away
mamintor poto silinduat~take a photo of twins straight away
mamintor tu bontean~straight to the port
mamolus lomo bonos~going through ups and downs
mamolus marmansam bongka~going through various things
mamorsan boban bonton~carry a heavy burden
mamorso olo ho~you're lying
mampartahanhon bingkas par~maintain basic identity
mampuna pardenggan basa~have a gift
mamuji tuhan tongtong~praise God always
mamungka hagogoon pardonganon~build the strength of brotherhood
mamungka sabiji jabu~build a house
manaba hau bersineangan~cutting down trees carelessly
manaili godang simpang~looking at many intersections
manaili haulion portibi~see the beauty of the world
manaili jolma hansit~visiting sick people
manajomhon samponggol bulu~sharpen a piece of bamboo
manakkui andurian borongborong~pocket hedgehog beetle
maname dohot simarata~planting and vegetables
maname opat batu~plant four seeds
manampilhon tanda tandi~displays distinctive characteristics
manandahon tarombo pinoparna~indicates his lineage.
manang aha pe~whatever
manang au bagihon~or I give
manang batak lipe~or fake Batak
manang diseat bonana~or cut the tree
manang dohar dipasintong~is it justifiable?
manang halung roha~or a heart necklace
manang hamlethu lagak~is my boyfriend handsome?
manang hatahu sintong~is my language correct?
manang hita hosom~or are we enemies?
manang ho diruma~are you at home
manang ho mamorso~are you lying
manang hundulma hinan~or sit down first
manang isi artina~is there any benefit?
manang na piga~a number of
manang naek timbangan~or get on the scale
manang paraloan olahraga~whether sports competition
manang parsoalan ni~what is that problem?
manang tondong habahaba~or the lightning family
manangani tano jolma~taking care of people's land
mananggo dohot piso~cut with a knife
manangihon jolma matua~listen to parents
manangihon na matua~listen to the old
manangihon poda mi~listen to your advice
manangihon sambola dingkan~listen to one side
manangko ho olo~stole you yeah
manangko puna jolma~steal someone's property
manapu di jabu~sweeping at home
manapu jo pedan~sweep first friend
manaripari lautan longo~across the lonely sea
manatap punguan jolo~looking at the masses ahead
mandabuhon pinsangpinsang mate~impose the death penalty
mandabuhon tohonan sadasa~lowering one's own dignity
mandahop ndang mian~hugging without remaining silent
mandalanhon tingki marguru~run a training period
mandalani hagabuson on~living this lie
mandalani sitaonon mamatehon~suffered a fatal blow
mandandan parbogason dohot~establish a relationship with
mandao tu mangaramoti~away to guard
mandaoni sihol on~cure this longing
mandapothon hepeng salombar~get a piece of money
mandapothon tolu batu~get three seeds
mandengkar sitaonon mamatehon~parry the fatal blow
mandohoti dohot denggan~follow well
mandongani angkang hita~accompany our brother
mandongani dohot mangarorot~accompanying and caring
mandulo jolma hansit~visiting sick people
manea hagogoon sadasa~weigh your own strength
manetek aek tijur~drooling
manetekhon aek matami~shed your tears
manetekhon aek simalolonghi~shed tears
mangabashon mandera bontar~waving a white flag
mangadonghon lumba ujar~hold an art competition
mangadopi ontangan ulaon~attend a party invitation
mangaduk dohot mamasang~repair and install
mangaehon hosa hangoluon~feel the breath of life
mangaehon ungkil mandohoti~feel, suffer. participation
mangagohon jojak jo~remove traces first
mangajar natolap manghatai~practice speaking skills
mangalala di marsada~merge to unite
mangalaosi luhut uhum~breaking all the rules
mangalap bali uluan~take over leadership
mangalap eur dohoti~take over the role
mangalean tompuk tangan~give applause
mangalehon sasudena di~leave it all to
mangalithon tungtung ulu~wearing a head covering
mangalompa sibuk panangga~cooking dog meat
mangalopi di au~begged me
mangaluahon luhut bene~let go of all the tiredness
mangaluahon mata hailna~remove the hook
mangalualu arta pusaka~sue for inheritance
mangalului marbinereng ho~seeking your attention
mangan aras listirik~eating electricity poles
mangan das mahap~eat until satisfied
mangan digagat mangallang~eat eat eat
mangan gadong insir~eat sweet potatoes
mangan ihur babi~eat pig's tail
mangan indahan laos~eat rice then
mangan jo hian~Eat first is the rule
mangan jo tondong~eat first, bro
mangan lompanna aha~what side dishes do you eat?
mangan modom peak~eat and sleep lying down
mangan napuran hamuna~eat your betel
mangan pangke sonduk~eat with a spoon
mangan parbue pining~eat areca nuts
mangan pasipasi pasipasi~eat the leftovers
mangan rampak uluan~eat with the leader
mangan rimpa holi~eat a bunch of bones
mangan soto bosur~eat full soup
mangan suhu suansuanan~eat plant expert
mangan tamuei pardolokan~eat herbal medicine from the Batak mountains
mangan tu hauma~eat in the fields
manganapu tihas lahang~cultivate greed
mangangguk ndada marlogu~crying doesn't sing
mangangguk ndang marlogu~crying without song
mangangku sajoma ho~just admit it
manganju hadongan, haadongan~understand the situation
manganju tu usang~be patient and thin
manganna manang ho~what do you eat?
manganna nunga ro~the meal has arrived
manganna tuhor tohap~eat quota
mangantak boto diri~somewhat self-aware
manganturei das pudi~take care of it until the end
mangantusi tingki on~understand this situation
mangaoti portibi porhis~explore the world of ants
mangarade di borhat~get ready to leave
mangarade manang paradehon~prepare or prepare
mangarade pa diri~prepare yourself
mangarade pagunduk baor~get ready to meet
mangarahon alu topar~inviting a fist fight
mangarahon martenju ho~invite you to fight??
mangaramoti abahan batak~maintaining Batak culture
mangaramoti babi bara~keeping pigs in a pen
mangaramoti dohot mangamoti~guard and protect
mangaramoti mangondihon mangamoti~guard protect protect
mangaranap bagas haholomon~contemplating in the dark
mangarasuni mandogildogil mangamal~poison wringing plans
mangarekam manang manurat~record or take notes
mangarihon godang pomparan~have many descendants
mangarihon tondi lumba~have a fighting spirit
mangarihonmu andorang umurhu~I have you all my life
mangarihonmu holan anganangan~having you is just a fantasy
mangarorot pahompu hinan~raise grandchildren first
mangarorot suansuanan mekap~caring for ornamental plants
mangarti ndada hatana~understand the language
mangarumpakhon tembok bolatbolat~breaking down the walls of separation
mangarunjak tudos babiat~stabbing like a tiger
mangaso i jabu~rest at home
mangaso jo tokkin~rest for a while
mangaso sian hauma~take a break from the fields
mangasta au ho~are you looking down on me?
mangasta ho olo~underestimate you huh
mangatim ari hamonangan~enjoy the day of victory
mangatim dohot mamuntarhon~enjoy and solve
mangatim ngalina pardolokan~enjoy the cool mountains
mangatim pangalehonon tuhan~Enjoy God's gift
mangatngat kambona tobu~biting sugar cane
mangeahi au annon~follow me later
mangendat hosa lumbang~breathed a sigh of relief
mangeur portibi hu~change my world
mangeur roha niba~distract my mind
manggantihon godang rongkom~transcribed many alphabets
manggashon di mahilolong~decided to postpone
manggashon di medang~decided to go around
manggombarhon roha au~describes my heart
manggomgomi begu ngolu~rule over living creatures
manggonopi uhum patik~fulfill the law
manggora dohot mangarimpu~shouted and thought
manggule pusuk hotang~sugaring rattan shoots
manggurat goar denggan~tarnish the good name
manggurat goar jegesdo~tarnish his good name
manghaholongi uhum jahoba~love God's law
manghaholongihu sadao on~love me so far
manghais eme pasipasi~scavenging for leftover rice
manghajongjonghon hita maralo~watching us fight
manghalomohon godang jolma~likes many people
manghasiat mangidohon tuarang~load, propose, popular
manghasiholi pamatang natuatua~missing a parent figure
manghatahatai dohot hamlet~dating
manghatai alame ondeng~just talking about dodol
manghatindanghon olap hamuliaon~testifying to glory
manghitiri luhut daging~shivering all over the body
manghitiri ngalian mohop~shivering fever
manghobas saotik saotik~tidy up a little bit
manghopol bugang leleng~bandage old wounds
manghorhon jolma asing~influence other people
manghuling talipon tangan~cellphone rings
manghunti bahasa parsadaan~uphold the language of unity
manghunti timbo bangko~uphold traditions
manghurtik sisik ugasan~touching the surface of an object
mangihut jesus gotos~follow jesus decision
mangihut tuhan jesus~follow the Lord Jesus
manginum kopi hipas~drink healthy coffee
manginum sasangkir kopi~drinking a cup of coffee
mangirit tingki manunsi~saves washing time
mangkar manegai daging~staying up late damages the body
mangoloi jolma matua~obey parents
mangoloi parenta tuhan~obey God's commands
mangoloi uhum sikkola~obey school rules
mangoluma dua gilok~there lived two caterpillars
mangoluma sahalak dolidoli~there lived a young man
mangoluma saihur buea~there lived a crocodile
mangoluma saut pasupasu~live a blessed life
mangoluma tano aek~long live the motherland
mangondam tudos aha~what kind of threat?
mangongkal talian aek~digging canals
mangongkos sibabi jalang~hire a prostitute
mangontapi dohot mandaoni~prevent and treat
mangopi tabo morana~really delicious coffee
mangorohon na mapisar~unite the divided
mangorong morongorong mangorong~moaning, whimpering, barking
mangorui pir ulu~reduces stubbornness
mangorui torus sahit~reduce the rate of disease
manguba sara marroha~change the way of thinking
manguhal au boasa~Analyze me why
mangula di porlak~gardening
mangumma bou hagabuson~smell the lie
mangumpat duhut riar~pulling out weeds
mangunjun hasea mulak~try to be successful again
mangunjun mamuntarhon masala~try to solve the problem
maniliknilik tu lassi~peeking into the drawer
maningkir jolma mate~mourn the dead
maniop abara hu~holding my shoulder
maniop alang alus~hold responsibility
maniop tangan na~holding his hand
maniop timbangan harajaon~holding the royal scales
manipani monding raja~contemplating the death of the king
maniru ama sa~imitate his father
maniru anak metmet~imitate small children
maniru ni jeges~cheating is good
maniru sian ende~imitate from the song
manisia longa sibolis~half-demon
manisia marateate batu~stone hearted man
manisia ndada marutok-utok~humans are unreasonable
manisia ndang marhabong~wingless man
manisia ndang marutok-utok~senseless humans
manisia ndang pantun~uncivilized humans
manisia rupana babi~human form of pig
manisia siboan masala~trouble-making human
manjaha hata tuhan~read the word of god
manjalo siahapon ondeng~just accept fate
manjangkit kalapa do~climbing coconuts huh?
manjua antong ho~you avoided it too
manjua dohot hatop~dodge quickly
manjua sian uhalan~avoid the discussion
manodo uhum nomor~designate regulation number
manogot mida sintahi~morning to see my love
manolai pa hita~separate us
manomba tu api~worship fire
manompuk abara au~patted my shoulder
manomunomu ni tamue~welcome the guests
manomunomu songkongan imbaru~welcome new support
manondang di ginjang~shines above
manonggor ondeng ho~just watch you
manongos aha boan~entrust what you bring
manontong di jabu~stay at home
manortor dohot donda~dance gracefully
manortor dongan ni~dance that friend
manortor rap pedan~dancing with friends
mansaima marlapatan bagihu~means a lot to me
mansam anak eteng~like a child
mansam au tiruna~like me for example
mansam dia sarana~how?
mansam jolma sagal~like a full person
mansam mansam ondolan~various kinds of emphasis
mansam tutu hutingkir~I see that's right
mansogohon sahali ho~you're so annoying
mantap molo songoni~great then
manuani tampahan marsiajar~grateful for learning opportunities
manubuhon dohot ramot~give birth safely
manuhor hapit jambulan~buy hair clips
manuhor indahan hita~buy our rice
manuhor sambal hita~buy our chili sauce
manuk boruboru bagas~hen inside
manuk ditading hamletna~Chicken left by his girlfriend
manuk marsiajar marpira~chickens learn to lay eggs
manuk situak natonggi~honey chicken
manuk talu tubi~the chicken lost the fight
manukkar partuturan tutur~exchange kinship ties
manuktuk pintu mi~knocking on your door
manuntunhon pinarsinta sadasa~impose one's will
manurat olap ho~write about you
manurat tanda parlange~swimmer's tick
manutup ruang alogo~close the vent
maol angkang jago~what a great brother
maol do ho~you suck
maol ma au~I'm bad
maol ma laos~it's really bad
maol mata lali~poor eagle eye
maol saribu hata~worth a thousand words
maol saut jolma~sucks being a person
maoto ni jekjek~dablek is naughty
maporus ma au~I evacuated
mapultak dolok margara~erupting volcano
mar ta tuli~what are we afraid of stopping by
mara jotjot mangkar~the danger of often staying up late
mara molo jonok~dangerous if you get close
mara saotik ondeng~just a little danger
maradi ma asi~stop darling
maradi ma marisap~Stop smoking
maradi ma tarhurim~stop hoping
maradong di luat~are in the region
maradu tu surgo~fight for heaven
maraekaek annon dion~I'll check here later
maralo dohot roha~against the heart
marangkup gabe nanaeng~pair up to become candidates
maras hot bonar~concerned, stay enthusiastic
maras tu namarsahit~concerned about patients
marata tubis torus~bamboo shoots continue
marbada bahasa batak~Batak language clash
marbada jolma ni~fight that person
marbada sajoma hita~let's just fight
marbada suda susuda~fight it out
marbahudung di jabu~meditate at home
marbahudung jeges arina~what a beautiful day
marbarita dungkon sae~let me know when it's finished
marbarita ondeng hita~just let us know
marbasa do tongtong~always be kind
marbingkas bitik au~based on my experience
marbogas dohot tuhan~connect with God
marbogas rosu ma~have sex
marbogasma dohot ahu~Marry me
marbogasma ho an~get married there
marburju roha la~be kind
mardalan di galung~walking on the embankment
mardalan nang heu~walking even though tired
mardalan tu pardolokan~walk into the mountains
mardalani alai pandan~walking but pandan
mardalani laho maredangedang~tour
mardalani tu pandan~take a walk to Pandan
mardalanma dohot menak~walk calmly
mardalanma dohot parbinotoan~walk with knowledge
mardalanma raphon au~walk with me
mardandi ho hasian~you sulk darling
mardandi rampak ho~sulking with you
mardeka nagari hu~my country is independent
mardingat olap hita~remember about us
mardingat parisahon asa~remember, consider then
mardingat tingki ni~remembering that time
mardomu masihol rampak~meet you miss each other
mardongan angguk bolon~make friends cry big
mardongan buru buru~make friends quickly
mardongan ombun manogot~friends with morning dew
mardos ni roha~agreed
mardosa rimas tuhan~sin angered God
mardosdos dohot aran~flat and decreasing
mardua ate martolu~two, not three
mardua hita mudumudu~we both build it
marende bahasa jaua~sing Javanese
marende ho ina~sing you mother
marende pangke sulim~sing with a flute
marga aha amangamangna~what surname is her husband?
marga au simangunsong~My surname is Simangunsong
margere dohot angkang~joking with my brother
margogoihon tali eat~strengthen ties of friendship
marhabot ni roha~mourning
marhabot ni roha~misfortune
marhalado dohot denggan~serve well
marhalado dohot roha~serve with heart
marhalado tu tuhan~serve God
marhamlet dohot ho~dating you
marhamulian aha mabalu~married or widowed?
marhatahata hu manombo~my nagging recurred
marhatai bonor ma~speak honestly...
marhatohohon na somal~confirming the usual
marhilala ra tete~feel like I'm going to poop
marhite balatuk umur~climb the age ladder.
marhitehite gokhon on~through this law
marhitehite handang bosi~through the iron fence
marhitehite panesa dosa~through the forgiveness of sins
marholong ni roha~love
marhua ho asi~how are you darling?
marhua ho dison~what are you doing here?
marhua sa hamuna~what are you doing?
marhusor hosinghon tarida~distort facts
maribak baba pamborontak~tear the mouth of the rebel
maridi hatop ho~take a quick shower
marimbulu naung tinutungan~problematic
marisap didia ho~smoking where are you?
marisap manang mangendat~smoke or suck
marisi imbulu tangkuhuk~contains goosebumps
marisi sere intan~contains gold gems
marjaitjaiotan sahali hamuna~you guys are so complicated
marjanji hot ripe~marriage contract
marjuang mangain derajat~struggle to elevate
marjuang sasintongna ondeng~just fight naturally
marjuang subang mundur~fight never back down
markarejo ansiat pandaoni~working as a doctor
markarejo au muse~I'm working again
markarejo di hauma~working in the rice fields
markarejo unang paotootohon~work don't cheat
markassa tu hassa~look in the mirror
markobun di huta~gardening in the village?
markombur do luhut~everyone talk
markombur do sasudena~everyone is talking
marlae bagas haporseaon~act in faith
marlae sa hita~we are in law
marlaiar parao asi~sail the ark of mercy
marlangsunglangsung tu medan~traveling to the field
marlapatan ate rongkapmi~means not your soul mate
marlapatan molo songoni~means then
marlapatan satahi hita~means we agree
marlas ni roha~happy
marleas ni roha~lightly
marleas ni roha~trivial
marlojong lua au~I'm running
marlojong sopola sadi~running non-stop
marlojong tudos alogo~run like the wind
marlomo monang ibana~as long as he wins
marlomo ni roha~wish
marlomo ni roha~want to
marlomo ni roha~want
marlomo ni roha~covet
marlomo ni roha~like
marlomo ni roha~Like
marluga kareta angin~pedal a bicycle
marlungun ni roha~mourning
marmansam hamansamon abahan~various cultural diversity
marmeam sulim bulu~playing bamboo flute
marmiak bohi hu~my face is oily
marminggu inganan ise~whose service is it at?
marminggu jumahat bolon~Good Friday worship
marminggu unang dipajolo~Worship should not come first
marmudar mudar rohahi~my heart bleeds
marmudumudu jabu balatuk~building a household
marmusik jo hita~Let's do music first
marnabang jambulan hamlethu~shave my girlfriend's hair
marnabang jambulan lamot~shave fine hair
marnatal ingkon sonang~Christmas should be happy
marnida dohot hatotongan~looked on in astonishment
marnipi sajoma jo~just dream first
marnonang dohot damang~chat with dad
marollok di somak~copulating in the bush
marollok huhut modom~having sex while sleeping
marollok huhut tete~having intercourse while defecating
marollok sian pudi~having sex from behind
maroma jalo asi~a thousand thanks
marpadanma di balang~promise to be faithful
marpahu bebe ho~you're too asleep
marpahu godang abat~too many obstacles
marpahu godang aloalo~too many competitors
marpahu godang endat~too much suction
marpahu godang insak~too many faults
marpahu godang santisanti~too many offerings
marpahu hansit uluhu~I have too much of a headache
marpahu jorbut inanginangmu~your wife is too sadistic
marpahu lahang laos~too greedy indeed
marpahu landit rohana~his heart is too slippery
marpahu lungun lapatanna~too sad meaning
marpahu malo mandilat~too good at licking
marpahu tonggi hatami~your words are too sweet
marpambahenan sip sip~act quietly
marpandoit sian pudi~quipped from behind
marpanganju di sasudena~give up on everything
marpangkean na patut~dress appropriately
marpigapiga noli manongoshon~sent many times
marporang dohot mangiran~fighting and hunting
marpos ni roha~hopeful
marpos ni roha~believe
marragam mansam panangko~various kinds of thieves
marria ibana mangan~let him eat
marro ni rimas~furious
marroha bahen marsadi~thinking about stopping
marroha ma ho~you think
marrongkap dohot hu~side by side with me
marrongkap ma hita~we are matched
marrunding dohot marrunding~deliberate and negotiate
marsada aganan padaodao~unite even though far apart
marsada aganan rangkak~unite despite distance
marsada dohot tuhan~commune with God
marsada hita galang~united we support
marsada hita mamonanghon~united we win
marsada hita uarar~united we will be victorious
marsada ni roha~seia
marsada ni roha~one word
marsahit anak on~this child is sick
marsahit annon angkang~I'll get sick later, brother
marsak susa hian~work hard first
marsali sabiji ugasan~borrow an object
marsambola naga baga~splitting itself in two halves the legendary snake of hope
marsaor ni ringkot~getting along is important
marsaor saut sada~mixed together
marsi lean poda~give each other advice
marsi ndada anto~don't care about each other
marsi pajagarhon dongan~respect each other
marsiajar bona malo~learn clever basics
marsiajar das bagebage~study until complete
marsiajar di inganan~learn on the spot
marsiajar dungkon alame~learn so you're stupid
marsiajar huhut dampol~learning while having a massage
marsiajar jolma bariba~learn the language of other people
marsiajar lumpat haithait~learn to pole vault
marsiajar ma mangamini~learn to forgive
marsiajar ma mangamini~learn to forgive
marsiajar porsan boban~learn to bear the burden
marsiajar sahalak ma~learn by yourself
marsiajar sahalak ma~learn by yourself.
marsillak dibagas rohahi~sparkling in my heart
marsinggang dohot mangalehon~kneel and submit
marsinta dohot bearbear~making love to the anus
marsinta dohot panangga~making love with a dog
marsinta karejo hamuna~fuck your work
marsirang alani parasingan~separated because of differences
marsirang ndangna marsirang~separating instead of divorcing
marsogot adu rongkom~tomorrow's painting competition
marsogot au hosinghon~I'll return it tomorrow
marsogot hu lean~I'll give it tomorrow
marsogot hulehon habar~I'll give you news tomorrow
marsogot karejo rodi~work hard tomorrow
marsogot lobi marapiapi~tomorrow will be more enthusiastic
marsogot mangula muse~hoeing again tomorrow
marsogot ndada tarsunggul~I won't wake up tomorrow
marsogot nunga lebaran~tomorrow is Eid
marsogotma hita himpu~we'll meet tomorrow
marsogotma ho talipon~you'll call tomorrow
marsogotma hu buat~I'll do it tomorrow
marsogotma molo songoni~tomorrow then
marsomba jahoba asing~worship other gods
marsonang di undungundung~relax at the cottage
marsonang mangatim botari~relax and enjoy the sunset
marsuga angur tonggi~prickly, fragrant, sweet
marsuga tonggi angur~prickly, sweet, fragrant,
marsuraksurak sagi rajam~cheer for your king
marsusut huhut hundul~having intercourse while sitting
martagi aha antong~charge anything
martagi rampak ndada~collect together no
martahi ni bagak~planning is cool
martandang martaon taon~dating for years
martandang saut mardongan~dating becomes friends
martani dohot marpinahan~farming and animal husbandry
martaon taon rap~many years together
martata ho iboto~laugh you sister
martata ihur hoda~horse butt laugh
martata suping mangontang~smiling invitingly
martata supingma aganan~smile though
martata supingma nang~smile though
martenju ma hamuna~you guys fight
martimbanghon hansur lala~rather than being destroyed,
martimbanghon na huhira~, than I thought
martolu hita rap~the three of us together
martongtang di masuk~fight to get in
martuani be arina~grateful every day
martumbuk ma hita~let's fight
martumpol huhut mangoli~engaged and married
marudur anture tagan~line up neatly before
marudut manang marudut~continuing or continuing
maruhom di jabu~stay at home
marujung amangna donganhu~my friend's father died
marujung bagas tabutabu~died in the womb
marujung dohot ditanom~died and was buried
marulaon bagas roha~party in your heart
marupahon panataon kristus~is a statement of Christ
marupahon parjahat marpanombo~is a repeat criminal
marusaha sagogo sa~try as hard as you can
marutok ma otik~have a little brain
marutokutok sabisabi sihil~wise cynical shrill
mas gerhana lagak~Mr. Eclipse is handsome
mas mi haminjon~mas, mu, kemenyan
masala jabu balatuk~household problem
masala tangkas salpu~the problem will definitely pass
masalana ate au~the problem is not me
masam pe ho~your time too
masi manaili luhut~everyone looked at each other
masi mandahop dohot~embrace each other and
masihol amanghu dijabu~I miss my father at home
masihol galmit hurummu~miss pinching your cheeks
masihol giot didahop~miss wanting to be hugged
masihol ho hamlethu~miss you my girl
masihol hoji meam~I miss wanting to play
masihol manganju ulum~miss stroking your head
masihol mardompak pipi~miss being face to face
masihol rampak siampudan~miss my youngest
masojit silom nagari~state Islamic mosque
masuk jorgong ulok~get into a snake trap
masuk masa pambunu~Enter killer mode
mata angkang rambonon~my brother's eyes are short-sighted
mata bangkol tarpitpit~eyes reluctant to close
mata hail sa~the hook
mata ho maribak~your eyes are torn
mata ho rara~your eyes are red
mata ho saihur~you have one eye
mata ingkon bajur~eyes must be careful
mata ni bulan~month
mata pardompahan tangan~eyes, forehead, hands
mata sapot sahali~very sharp eyes
matampuk aek mata~tears fell
matana momar sahali~his eyes were very wide
matana naung rambonon~his eyes are dim
mataniari nari isi~the sun is still there
mataniari nunga binsar~the sun has risen
mataniari nunga binsar~the sun has risen.
mataniari pala genggeng~the sun is very hot
mataniari tarlonop i~sunset in
mate dohot doho~die with honor
mate ma ho~curse
mate muse ni~it's dead again
mate satongkin siampudan~youngest brother
matehon palito rara~turn off the red light
matua naung leleng~old classic
mauliate a hajegesonna~thank you for the beauty
mauliate nunga manuhor~thank you for purchasing
mauliate nunga ro~Thank you for coming
mauliate tangiangna tulang~Thank you for your prayers uncle
maupma hita on~we're doomed
meam batu domino~play dominoes
meam di antaran~playing in the yard
meam martolu hita~the three of us play
meam pidong darapati~playing pigeon
meam reap reap~play kite
medan dia soarana~terrain, where is the sound?
medan laos imbar~the terrain is different
medan na dihidia~where is Medan city?
medan tongtong jumolo~the field is always at the forefront
medang huhut marjaga~walking around while standing guard
medang jabu nasida~around their house
meme hu rittik~my mom is crazy
memori bulung anggundea~banana leaf memory
memori bulung gaol~banana leaf memory
menak hatop mamatehon~calm down quickly turn off
menak hita lengse~calm down, let's kill it
mene au ra~OK, I'm ready
mene ndada masala~OK, no problem
mengendos dohot hambing~having intercourse with a goat
mengendos i bondar~having sex in a ditch
mengkel mira bohi~laughed cheerfully
mengkelmu mangeur banuahu~Your laugh changes my world
mental dohot paho~mental and moral
meret tu gonong~moving to round
metmet tudos gilok~small like a caterpillar
miak ni tano~strength
miak nunga ro~the oil has arrived
mida bohi ulimu~see your beautiful face
mida mangentei ponot~look beyond the channels
mida na marujung~see the dead
mida portibi matutung~watch the world burn
mida roha tedak~see an open heart
mida ruar lung~see outer space
mida sandok huriam~see all your people
mida tano ompung~see ancestral land
mida tingki lompo~see the past
mida tingki palito~look at the lights
mihimmihim hombar jabu~neighbors whispered
mingor torus hamuna~you guys keep being noisy
mirdong alani bahenbahenan~dizzy because of the action
mirdong hurang edang~dizzy from not having a picnic
mirdong uluhu binahenna~it gave me a headache
mirdong uluhu ninna~I have a headache, he said
modat dohot alkohol~opium and alcohol
modom alai bollang~sleeping but awake
modom annon laos~sleep later
modom asa taboan~sleep well
modom dahera horbo~sleep like a buffalo
modom dungkon mangan~sleep after eating
modom ho anggihi~sleep, my sister
modom i abingan~sleeping on your lap
modom jo dakdanak~sleep first kid
modom muse tondong~go back to sleep bro
modom sinok hian~slept very soundly
modom sinok sahali~sleep very soundly
modomma nunga arian~go to sleep at noon
modommu ni bohalmu~your sleep is your provision
mohop genggeng mataniari~hot sun
mohop loni ninna~it's hot, he said
mohop manang arsean~hot or sultry
mohop pa oma~it's hot, mom
mohop sahali arina~very hot day
mokmok butuha mi~your belly fat
mokmok jala tingkal~fat and flirtatious
mokmok loni hurumna~his cheeks are fat
molo adong dope~if it still exists
molo boi nian~please
molo dang sibuk~if you're not busy
molo ho mangarti~if you understand
molo hurang anggota~if there are not enough members
molo jonok do~if it's close
molo luhut bagebage~if everything is complete
molo malua tok~if the dizziness breaks
molo maol diantusi~if it's hard to understand
molo marende songonon~if you sing like this
molo maridi pangke~if you shower, use it
molo nahinaholongan mangaloas~if the king permits
molo sega digatti~if damaged replace it
molo tingki diordong~if the time is played
molo toho gogo~if it's really strong
mommon rampak mi~snot like you
mommon rap ho~snot on you
monangdo manang talu~win or lose
mondok hu mago~my sleepiness is gone
monjap di timbul~squat to rise
morana naung gajian~it's like getting paid
morana sipanganonna tabo~the food seems delicious
morot das tusi~shifted there
morot hatop tu~move quickly to
morot pitu langka~move seven steps
morot tu hambirang~shift to the left
mosok digagat api~scorched by fire
motor mardalan nanget~the vehicle is moving slowly
muara duma delmek~estuary prosperous sentosa
mudarna godang loni~lots of blood
mula hian hatiha~since time immemorial
mula jaman metmet~since childhood
mula mananda ho~since knowing you
mula nari boni~since it was still a seed
mula nasogotan nangkin~since this morning
mula parjolo loni~since the first time
mula poso tu~early on
mula simangunsong mussat~since simangunsong moved
mulak annon huulahon~I'll do it when I come home
mulak asi anggihi~I love my sister again
mulak huta markobun~returning home to gardening
mulak huta martani~go home to farm
mulakma dolidoli hu~come back my man
mulakma ibana aning~Go home, he's waiting
mulakma jo ho~go home first
mulakma rampak angkang~come back with brother
mulana au lomo~at first I liked it
mullop tu sisik~emerge to surface
mungkal songon siarari~proud
muningan jolma tuana~asked his parents
mura alai naboritan~simple but painful
mura mohop au~I get hot easily
mura sahali ni~that's very cheap
muruk lapatan simalungun~angry means simalungun
muruki torus tulang~keep scolding uncle
muse aha ulaning~what else?
muse didia angkup~where are you guys?
muse jaha jaha~still reading
muse legan ibana~he's in style
muse mamillit pining~again choosing areca nut
muse manangani anak~taking care of the children
muse mangarajumi hangoluon~contemplating life
muse mangarajumi siahapon~contemplating fate
muse manghais rajuman~still earning a fortune
muse maradi satangkirisap~taking a short break
muse margait au~I'm still joking
muse marhua anggi~I'm reaching for my sister
muse mudu dalan~currently outpatient
muse nengel olo~I'm deaf now
muse peak angkang~I'm lying down, brother
muse peak au~I'm lying down
muse sirarion tigatiga~We're discussing sales
muse sonang luhut~everyone is relaxing
muse tarnok olo~I'm asleep right now
muse tinggala hauma~again plowing the fields
musem halung roha~also a heart necklace
museum on marupahon~this museum is
musik naung leleng~classical music
musu igung bolang~anti masher
musu martangan hambirang~anti Corruption
mutu sa hami~we are willing
mutung tangkas bohina~There's definitely a frown on his face
na angkiningan margoar~previously named
na antuk gaji~what matters is salary
na apala toruk~which is so low
na barita ganjang~which is a long article
na bohina roa~whose face is ugly
na boi habang~who can fly
na boi mandaoni~who can treat it
na botulna aha~what's true?
na di ahu~for me
na di parrohahon~which is noticed
na di pikkirhon~what you think
na di tahihon~which was planned
na di todo~designated
na dibahen angkup~caused by
na dijalo tuhan~what God asked for
na dipunsu hambirang~the one on the left
na dohot lahang~who is greedy
na giot mangain~who wants to lift
na giot nidok~what you want to say
na godang hatahatam~you talk a lot
na godangan nimmu~that's what you say a lot
na godangan turgas~which has a lot of work
na gok sahala~who is full of wisdom
na hea hutanda~that I've ever known
na hita parsinta~what we aspire to
na ho antus~that you understand
na ho arihon~that you have
na huboan tujabum~that I brought to your house
na i ambang~which is light
na jengeng sa~which is scary
na jogi parangan~a strong warrior
na jolo naumposo~ancient junior
na jumadihonsa ndang~which makes it non-existent
na lobi diparateatehon~more attention
na lomo mambunu~who likes to kill
na lomo mangurupi~who likes to help
na lopok hipas~the main thing, be healthy
na lumpu mardalan~the paralyzed walk!!!
na mabola dua~which is split in two
na mandohoti ansiat~who plays the role
na mangalului naniomo~who seek profit
na mangarahon lilu~which leads astray
na manjadi nuaeng~what's happening now
na manjamorehon karejona~which circumvents its work
na mansai bagak~magnificent
na marangkup mardua~who are paired together
na marbangko manisia~of a human nature
na marbangko rasum~which is pseudo
na mardompak tais~which is far away
na marhuaso mangarasehon~who has the power to destroy
na marsikkola di~who studied at
na marsogot rapot~the trial tomorrow
na mate punasa~the dead have it
na naeng manggugai~that would be annoying
na nangkin dihatahon~what was said earlier
na nari tulus~which is still ongoing
na naung diburi~which has been cleaned
na ndang impas~which does not disappear
na ndang maraleale~who is not friendly
na ndang marutok~who is brainless
na nia lehetna~Good
na nunga dibuhuli~which has been specified
na nunga jobung~who has been caught
na nunga mangojakhon~who has made it official
na nunga marsidohot~who have participated
na nunga nungama~yeah, never mind
na nunga nungama~that's enough
na nunga pinalolo~which has been agreed
na on do~this one
na otona ho~who are you stupid?
na paadophon sori~which brings disaster
na pala marnidok~which is very meaningful
na patoguhon parbogason~which strengthens relationships
na patut uli~which is beautiful
na pinahamat parbadia~which is considered sacred
na porlu bagak~who needs to be beautiful
na puna harohaon~who has a will
na puna lolo~who has a desire
na ra diseat~who wants to cut
na ra manuhorna~who wants to buy it
na rampak boho~exactly the same
na ringkot andar~the important thing is to be present
na ringkot tobal~the important thing is thick
na ro losokhu~reluctant
na sai ingan~formerly
na sai laon~formerly
na sai laon~previously
na sala pature~corrected the wrong thing
na si nilang~exception
na so habubuhan~virgin
na so marama~stray
na so marina~stray
na so marpunsa~tangled
na so marugamo~infidel
na so panagaman~who is silent
na so sibar~very
na so uhum~Wrong
na soada gamuon~poor
na soada jamaon~poor
na tarlengket nirohahu~the most beautiful in my heart
na timbil sasintongna~the most essential
na tongtong mandamosi~who always accompanies you
na tongtong paganuphon~which is always sufficient
na torop sian~a lively one from
na tumua pardagingon~your senior
na uja sandar~who is capable of surup
na ulu naga~the dragon head
naboa anak borua~what's wrong girl?
nabodari amang masuk~last night you came in
naboha dila mi~what's wrong with your tongue?
naboritan jolma ni~hurt that person
nabung naung ma~save it already
nada adong dope~the tone is still there
nadumenggan dohot pasihar~excel and shine
naek bariba binanga~lifted across the river
naeng dibahen aha~what are you going to do?
naeng ditontuhon jadi~will be determined later
naeng hu buktihon~I'll prove it
naeng hu hophop~I will embrace it
naeng hu putik~I'll pick it
naeng hujaga ho~I'll take care of you
naeng isi tingkina~there will be a time
naeng lereng ho~about your bike
naeng ma nian~so
naeng manuhor tombak~want to buy a spear
naeng manumpa masarakat~will shape society
naeng pangido songkongan~will ask for support
naeng tarae ambang~it will feel light
naengan saut maradu~it's going to be a fight
nala sahali obukna~her hair is so bright
nalahang sahali ho~you're so selfish
nalom ni roha~resigned
nalom ni roha~steadfast
nama uli utus~it's just very beautiful
namalo ingkon mangolap~educated must oppose
namora di dangka~monkey
nampuna harajaon surgo~possess the kingdom of heaven
namun ndada gabusma~as long as you don't lie
nanaeng helam ina~Your future daughter-in-law, mother
nanaeng pangingani narongko~prospective residents of hell
nandigan annon dipangke~when used later
nang hadang pidong~who wears birds
nang pe sihir~which is almost finished
nangaetan olo jahoba~tired, oh my god
nanget hamuna olo~take it slow, okay?
nanget nanget dokhon~say it slowly
nanget nanget hatana~speak slowly
nangkin dungo au~I just woke up
nangkin hu rundut~I was confused
nangkin sae mangan~just finished eating
nangkok hopal tongtang~get on a fighter plane
nangkok julu daging~up the body
nangkok lante onom~go up to the sixth floor
nangkok mudar musem~bloodshot too
nangkok tuat rura~up and down the valley
naniuhal ampa mandokhon~wise quotes say
naniuhal buku parbadia~scripture quotes
nantuari hundul didia~where were you sitting yesterday?
napajongjonghon huta digora~the founder of the village is called
napodo gajian ipar~not yet paid on the other side
napuran sibontar mata~Dutch betel
napuran tani tani~betel tani tani
napuran tani tano~betel farming land
nari dakdanak ibana~he's still a kid
nari dalan hosomna~still the enemy's way
nari diboan hamlethu~My girl still carries it
nari dilean hangoluon~still given life
nari dilehon ndada~is it still given or not?
nari dipabuni tuhan~God still keeps it
nari diruar boasa~still outside. Why ?
nari godangna parompuan~there are still many women
nari hot dihangoluhon~still being implemented
nari hu panotnoti~I'm still looking at it
nari ingkon dipupus~still need to be guided
nari isi pinggolmu~you still have your ears
nari isi tamue~there are still guests
nari jogi pidongmu~your bird is still strong
nari leleng baritana~it's still a long time coming
nari lobi posa~still worse
nari lomo marpilitan~still guilty
nari mangarorot anak~still raising children
nari manghais rajuman~still earning a living
nari manjarga holong~still want love
nari marubat ibana~he is still receiving treatment
nari merung merung~still skinny skinny
nari metmet pardagingon~you're still small
nari papunguhon ngolu~still collecting lives
nari saut simagomago~still unemployed
nari sisolhot au~still my cousin
nari tangkang ho~are you still stupid?
nari tigatiga motor~still selling cars
nari tongtong taralimos~still always in mind
nari torus taralimos~still imagining
nasida andorang markarejo~he is working
nasida andorang sirarion~they are discussing
nasida di hurung~they are locked up
nasida guru au~he is my teacher
nasida lam pangus~they are getting more and more arbitrary
nasida mandoltuk ibana~they hit him
nasida mangahap teal~they feel lame
nasida mangan mongkus~they eat greedily
nasida nunga lao~he has gone
nasida tompu marhata~they spontaneously said
nasipni bajar boban~fate is single dependent
natana ho pargabus~in fact you are a liar
natana laos sintong~in fact it's true
natanata hian hamu~you're so tacky
natanata loni ho~you're tacky
natuatua ingkon mangalehon~parents must provide
naumposo hurang tutur~impudent junior
naumposo na jolo~ancient junior
naung andar hae~thighs are clear.
naung au pinsang~I've advised you
naung au sungkunhon~I've asked
naung au tolopi~I have agreed
naung banje mangan~I've finished eating
naung beuk dagingmi~are you immune?
naung bolus saminggu~it's been a week
naung borngin bereng~it's late, look
naung borngin dakdanak~it's late kid
naung buhai dihangoluhon~has started to be implemented
naung buhai tarelek~already starting to be persuaded
naung bunsiton gariada~I'm already full
naung buri tangan~I've washed my hands
naung dainang surathon~I've registered it
naung di dalani~experience
naung di sundur~it's been discussed
naung diboan luhut~everything has been brought
naung diburi luhut~everything has been cleaned
naung digagat luhut~it's all been eaten
naung digagat sipanganonna~have you eaten the food?
naung digarar pa~it's been paid, right?
naung digotap tokke~Has it been decided, boss?
naung dipuji pe~it has been praised
naung diririt tuhan~God has chosen
naung disungkun torus~I've been asked all the time
naung disuru mulak~I've been told to come back
naung ditambahon umur~age has been added
naung ditonahon ina~Mom ordered it
naung garar silehonlehon~I have paid zakat
naung godang lehengna~there's been a lot of behavior
naung godang manganna~I've eaten a lot
naung gupak sabi~already a sickle machete
naung hami juju~we have directed it
naung hita bolusi~we've been through
naung ho endat~have you sucked it?
naung hobas bilut~I've packed the room
naung hu agak~I already guessed
naung huar barang~I've unpacked the goods
naung hudalani luhut~I've done it all
naung hudok apala~I told you so
naung hundul ma~sit down already
naung hupaboa luhut~I've told you everything
naung inum tambarmu~Have you taken your medicine?
naung isi dingoluhu~already in my life
naung isi oraora~there is already a ban
naung jora olo~I've repented
naung leleng mabalu~been widowed for a long time
naung lobi timbo~it's already higher
naung lupa songonna~I think I've forgotten
naung mago sahitmu~your pain is gone
naung mamborontak ho~you have rebelled
naung mamintor binoto~it was immediately known
naung mangalap ho~have taken you
naung manggugai tingkina~it's been a waste of time
naung manutung tokke~already burned the boss
naung marhamulian ho~you're married
naung martandang dohot~already dating
naung marujung portibi~has died
naung masak lompalompana~the food is cooked
naung masak ni~it's ripe
naung matua ho~you're old
naung matua manarita~already old and abused
naung moru sahitna~the pain has decreased
naung mula sorang~it's been since birth
naung ndada orom~no longer fasting
naung ndada tangging~it's not tight anymore
naung ndang saroha~it's no longer healthy
naung paias daging~I've cleaned my body
naung pangido tolopan~I've asked for approval
naung pariama manukna~I've harvested the chicken
naung patimbohu ho~you're already tall
naung potang on~it's this evening
naung ra andar~ready to attend
naung ro guruna~the teacher has arrived
naung roa sipanggaron~already acting badly
naung sabulan salpu~a month has passed
naung sae manuhat~I've finished measuring
naung sae marsiajarna~have you finished studying?
naung sae sahitmu~your pain is over
naung sae tartuhor~already purchased
naung salese olo~it's paid off
naung salpu luhut~it's all over
naung salpu manjadi~it's already happened
naung sega obukna~her hair has been damaged
naung siboanon sorang~it's congenital
naung somal ditadinghon~usually abandoned
naung somal margapgap~I'm used to lying
naung suda lompanna~the side dishes are finished
naung talu godang~I've lost a lot
naung tar mondok~I'm a bit sleepy
naung tarhilala leleng~it's been quite a long time
naung tarpapungu sinamotna~the dowry has been collected
naung tartutup holong~already covered in love
naung tastas pa~it's gone through, right?
naung tingkina haholomon~it's time for darkness
naung tuat argana~the price has gone down
naung tudos pangondian~already like a lawyer
naung tuhu jahana~I've seriously read it
naung tupa kopi~are you ready for coffee?
naung tutup panongosan~Shipping has closed
naung ula digadis~it's been sold
naung unang ditagi~don't charge it anymore
naung une pangidoan~it's as ordered
ndada alang alang~don't be half-hearted
ndada andar buktina~the evidence is not clear
ndada anto hatahatam~no matter what you say
ndada au oloi~I don't agree
ndada bias hamuna~don't get bored of you
ndada boi digogo~can't be forced
ndada boi dijaha~unreadable
ndada boi dipajongjong~cannot be established
ndada boi dipandokoni~can't say
ndada boi diparhatutu~unbelievable
ndada boi disalamathon~can't be saved
ndada boi hujalo~I can't accept it
ndada boi huputik~I can't pick it
ndada boi ma~it can't be
ndada boi manjua~can't avoid it
ndada boi matutung~can't burn
ndada boi tarpaboa~unspeakable
ndada bolas mamartida~can't argue
ndada bolas manjadi~can't happen
ndada boto martarombo~don't know the pedigree
ndada das rundut~doesn't get tangled
ndada denggan mangasungi~it's not good to slander
ndada denggan sipangago~it's not good to be a liar
ndada di agak~unexpected
ndada di digadis~not for sale
ndada di loas~may not
ndada di pardulihon~not cared about
ndada di ulahi~not repeated
ndada dijaha sa~didn't read it
ndada diloas karejo~not allowed to work
ndada diparateatehon anakna~his son didn't pay attention
ndada dohar dibuha~can not be opened
ndada dohar dibutbut~inalienable
ndada donganan hami~not our friends
ndada gabusma au~I'm not lying
ndada haberengan labana~doesn't look good
ndada hadongaran dongan~no fight, friend
ndada halupahonon au~I haven't forgotten
ndada hamu ma~not you
ndada hea hurimpu~I never thought
ndada hea maretong~never count
ndada ho pardulihon~you don't care
ndada holan marnonang~no, just chatting
ndada hu pikkiri~I don't think so
ndada i tilli~not ignored
ndada isi abat~there are no obstacles
ndada isi aloalo~there is no competition
ndada isi angkal~no sense
ndada isi bagian~no quota
ndada isi baritana~there's no news
ndada isi habalian~there is no opponent
ndada isi habongna~there are no wings
ndada isi halenseng~no doubt
ndada isi halusna~There is no harm
ndada isi hambolna~there's no benefit
ndada isi hapistaran~no intelligence
ndada isi hatorangan~no description
ndada isi labana~no profit
ndada isi mago~nothing to lose
ndada isi magona~nothing to lose
ndada isi margana~there is no surname
ndada isi masalana~there's no problem
ndada isi naniomo~no income
ndada isi pamikkiron~no thought
ndada isi panggulmiton~There is no movement
ndada isi parompuanna~there are no women
ndada isi saotikpe~not a bit of it
ndada isi siingotonna~no memories?
ndada isi tongosan~no deposit
ndada jengeng ni~it's not that scary
ndada mamekhon sa~don't pay attention to it
ndada mamporseahon pos~not sure sure
ndada mandapothon pidom~don't get hurt
ndada mangajar muse~not teaching anymore
ndada mangan patialaon~don't eat faint
ndada mangantusi ma~don't understand
ndada mangarimpu au~I didn't expect it
ndada mangarop ali~don't expect anything in return
ndada mangarti hatahu~don't understand my language
ndada mangarti hatana~don't understand the language
ndada manghorhon di~has no impact on
ndada manjumpanghon hasalaan~found no error
ndada manonggor tonel~don't watch dramas?
ndada maol sintahi~not worth my love
ndada maradat ho~you're not civilized
ndada margolle au~I'm helpless
ndada marhaporseaon sasahalak~someone doesn't believe
ndada marmarga oma~not surnamed mak
ndada migar bohina~not sour face
ndada muse tarhatahon~no longer spoken
ndada nangkok ho~don't ride you
ndada pajumpang tulangna~didn't meet his uncle
ndada pongkot ho~not your capital
ndada porlu bangkol~no need to hesitate
ndada porlu pudun~no need to dress up
ndada puna janjela~has no windows
ndada puna marhamlet~don't have a relationship
ndada sumbaiang au~I don't pray
ndada tabo jogal~not good. tough
ndada taboan au~I don't feel good
ndada tarbege pe~not even heard
ndada tarbege soaram~your voice can't be heard
ndada tarbege soarana~his voice couldn't be heard
ndada tardungdung muse~not affordable anymore
ndada tarpangke halakna~people don't use it
ndada tartaon muse~can't hold back anymore
ndada tartuhor ni~didn't buy it
ndada tongtong marungutungut~don't always grumble
ndada tontu bolas~no, of course you can
ndada tupa mereng~impossible to roll
ndang adong naapol~smooth
ndang adong namapol~smooth
ndang alo on~there is no such opponent
ndang boi digogo~can't be forced
ndang boi diparsinta~can't be expected
ndang boi halupahonon~unforgettable
ndang boi jahana~can't read it
ndang boi marhutik~can't move
ndang boi tarlaosan~can't get past it.
ndang bura ho~don't curse you
ndang dia imbarna~The same
ndang dia imbarna~similar
ndang dope anture~it's not tidy yet
ndang dope bagebage~not finished yet
ndang dope binoto~not yet known
ndang dope diburi~not cleaned yet
ndang dope ditahi~not yet planned
ndang dope libur~still not on holiday
ndang dope manontuhon~not yet determined
ndang dope mondok~not sleepy yet
ndang dope morot~hasn't shifted yet
ndang dope mutu~not willing yet
ndang dope pudun~not groomed yet
ndang dope tarnono~not asleep yet
ndang dope tingkina~he's not dead yet
ndang ebat marsadi~never stopped
ndang hea tarida~never appeared
ndang hea torbang~never came across
ndang isi hapataran~there is no clarity
ndang isi pikkiranna~no thoughts
ndang isi sonduk~no spoon
ndang leleng dope~just now
ndang lua marbiasbias~don't run away
ndang mangoloi ajar~defiant
ndang marhepeng au~I'm broke
ndang momos dorpina~the walls are not sturdy
ndang na tong~nothing last forever
ndang olo so~lasak
ndang puna hepeng~don't have money
ndang sadi markarejo~never stop working
ndang tabo pe~not even nice
ndang tarbayanghon daona~unimaginably far away
ndang tarhatahon muse~unspoken
ndang tarjua so~must
ndang tarjua so~must
ndang taroro so~must
ndang taroro so~must
ndang tupa lemes~it can't be smooth
ndangna au holit~It's not that I'm stingy
nengel i jou~deafened by being called
nengel loni ho~you're deaf
nga boa dasi~it's common to tie
nga lasak be~I can't keep quiet anymore
ngail di dia~where to fish?
ngail ondeng hita~just fishing for us
ngali ma daina~it feels cold
ngali ma panghilalaanna~it feels cold
ngali ngali damor~cold cold soft
ngali ni ari~freezing
ngali ni ari~cool
ngalian mohop arun~malarial fever
ngalian mohop batak~Batak fever
ngalian mohop muse~fever again
ngalian mohop pansa~Stage fright
ngalian mohop somal~ordinary fever
ngingi au manombo~my teeth are acting up
ngingi ho lobangon~your teeth are missing
ngingi mi tarida~your teeth are sticking out
ngingi sa hunik~his teeth are yellow
ngingim pala bagak~your teeth are very beautiful
ngolu au dangol~my life is miserable
ngolu di hamajuon~live for progress
ngolu di marhalado~live to serve
ngolu dohot poda~life and teaching
ngolu hita rumtum~our lives together
ngolu ingkon dos~life must be balanced
ngolu lamu potir~life is getting bitter
ngolu ndang dos~life is out of balance
ngolu ni maradat~life is normal
ngolu tongtong martoruk~life is always humble
ngolu tudos hora~live like a weasel
ngorngor olo katua~Slow down, Chief
ngorngor tano tokke~slow down boss
ni alani tarabuk~it's because it's forced
ni amang tiri~the fathers dumped them
ni anak parsamean~boarding school children
ni goarna bargak~that's called cowardice
ni ingkon dilopokhon~it must take priority
ni loloan laos~ladies and gentlemen
ni mamintor mamburai~it immediately cursed
ni pa panghilalaanmu~that's how you feel
ni pa siak~that's spicy
ni pala ringkot~it is very funny
ni pangalului dollar~dollar seekers
ni partimbo boni~seed officials
ni parungkil hepeng~money warriors
ni pidong harangan~it's a forest bird
ni porlu dipauli~it needs to be built
ni rumbungan aek~it's a water tube
nia inganan umuli~give me the best place
niadang ni roha~objective
niambit ni raja~protected
nian ingkon dipaolooloi~his wishes must be obeyed
niba pinta pangurupion~I ask for help
nibagas pikkiran hu~in my mind
nibagas salaoar amang~in your pants, sir
nini baea baea~great-grandson
nini hela parompuan~great-granddaughter-in-law
nini na dia~which great-grandfather?
nini sian baoa~son's great-grandson
ninna pedan marlaoan~he said traveling friends
ninna teal hata~he said arrogantly
ninna unang losok~he said don't be lazy
nipi didahop angkang~dream, being hugged by my brother
nipi na tartuhor~bought dreams
nipihon na jeges~dream beautiful
nirasahon muse sahitna~I feel the pain again
nomor piga hamu~what number are you?
nona ho hape~apparently you're senile
nonang nonang hita~chat chat with us
nonangan tonga borngin~midnight chat
nuaeng aha tahim~now what is your plan
nuaeng au marumur~now I'm old
nuaeng maringanan idia~where do you live now?
nuaeng odoran hamuna~now it's your turn
nuaeng pangke sonduk~now use a spoon
nunga au jalang~I've said hello
nunga boi gantungan~I can hang it
nunga borngin holonghi~it's late my darling
nunga borngin parjolo~it's the first night
nunga borngin ressok~it's been a noisy night
nunga borngin uli~it's a beautiful night
nunga dibongoti angkup~been inhabited by
nunga gabe maup~wretched
nunga godang torbang~much has been missed
nunga idaonhu haburjuonmi~I have seen your goodness
nunga mangan durian~I've eaten durian
nunga mangan inum~have eaten and drunk
nunga mulak nasida~he has come home
nunga ro alogo~the wind has come
nunga ro barangna~the goods have arrived
nunga ro indahan~the rice has arrived
nunga ro motorna~the car has arrived
nunga ro pahompum~your grandson has arrived
nunga ro polisi~the police have come
nunga ro sahitna~the disease has come
nunga sip au~I've been quiet
nunga talas be~it's been clear about everything
nunga tung diujung~it's very late
nunga tung lele~have been expelled
obuk didandan begu~dreadlocks
obukmu mora honas~your hair is like a pineapple
obukna ruksi ringkot~curly hair, cute
odoran sohot pedan~friend's turn to marry
odot jambar ginjang~press the top
odot lima loni~press five times
ojak managam botari~standing waiting for dusk
ojak mengadap pastina~stand facing west
ok siap dongan~OK, ready bro
oke au radoti~OK, I'll save it
oke hasea disan~okay success there
oke jago ma~okay, that's good
oke pukul sadia~okay what time
oke sonang ni~okay that's safe
okema au suba~okay, I'll try
okema ndada masala~okay, no problem
olahraga na tota~regular exercise
olap hajungkaton bajar~about juvenile delinquency
olap mangorui lonsam~about reducing the number
olap uhum pangsiun~regarding pension regulations
oli huhut marlojong~mating while running
oli opat bolas~four marriages are allowed
olle na diparis~shared talents
olo au martembak~yes I want to
olo bagas pangunjunan~obedient in trials
olo dabodabo hulingna~yeah that's what it sounds like
olo do ra~perhaps
olo jesus urupima~Oh Jesus, please
olo pansar ma~yes, spray it
olo partonggol oto~yes stupid ensign
olo susa naporsuk~yes, it's hard to suffer
olo tardobo pusa~yes, tortured
olo, tuhor aha~yeah, what to buy?
oloan sadasa jo~I want to do it myself first
olodo ho ihut~will you come?
olodo saut langkuponhu~will you be my mistress?
olohon nonang nasida~have their conversation
oloma anggo ido~yeah then
oloma asa hatop~come on, let's make it quick
oloma siap lae~yes, every brother-in-law
olop angkang citra~agree sister image
olop tongon ni~agree it fits
ombasmu banuam ardoanmu~your time, your world, your business
ombun bahasa batak~Batak language dew
omo manggadis babi~proceeds from selling pigs
omo sirarion hami~the results of our discussion
omo siulubalang ari~crops
ompan tu batak~bait to Batak
ompung boru ompung~ancestral grandmother
ompung boru peang~broken grandmother
ompung doli bara~chocolate grandfather
ompung doli nona~senile grandfather
ompung doli panoroni~step grandfather
ompung doli sihahaan~eldest grandfather
ompungna ise on~whose grandfather is this?
ompungna lam matua~his grandmother was getting older
ompungna naung matua~his grandmother was old
ompungna roa sahali~his grandfather was very ugly
ompunta sijolojolo tubu~ancestors
ompunta sijolojolo tubu~ancestors
on anak sisean~this is a student
on andorang marlinggom~this is taking shelter
on au paingot~I remind you of this
on baru manuhor~just bought this
on bonda au~this is mine
on daina lango~this tastes bland
on dialusi jo~answer this first
on do pe~then
on ende halomoonhu~this is my favorite song!
on hu paulak~I'm returning this
on imbaru olle~this is just talent
on luhut mansogohon~this all sucks
on ma oroanna~this is his fiancé
on ma prestasina~this is his achievement
on muse disuba~trying this again
on naeng manumpahi~this will help
on nari dilompa~it's still cooking
on panglima sa~this is the commander in chief
on pintoron tuhu~this is really serious
on santisanti hami~this is our offering
on santisanti ho~this is your offering
on sipareakan sa~this is the goal
on tambar bisana~this is the antidote
onan manuhor situhoron~shopping market
ondihon iboto hami~protect our brothers
ondihon tondong hami~protect our family
ondol gundar torus~keep brushing
ondol loni panghulingmu~you speak well
ondol ni hata~he remembered
onma anak parpudi~this is the last child
onma hami naposom~here we are your servants
onma hami ruas~this is our congregation
onma hamlet haholonganhu~this is my favorite girlfriend
onma torsa diparalangalangan~this is the story of overseas
onpe anggiat marsauli~so hopefully it's useful
onpe ardang sa~that's how he hummed
onpe hata panjaloon~that's the greeting
ontik dohot sulingkit~thrifty and thorough
opat parbue pandapot~four suggestions
opat pulu bagian~forty portions
opat sia pulu~four ninety
orbuk di dalihan~ash in the furnace
orbuk i dalihan~dust in the furnace
orbuk panutungan eme~burnt rice ashes
oroanna jolma dia~Who is her fiancé?
orui argana ma~reduce the price
orui marhatai pinsur~talk less sharply
orui marhatai risi~reduce harsh talk
osang dohot mananggo~chin and cut
osang ho boasa~what's wrong with your chin?
oto bingkas garapus~stupid. careless bastard.
oto hian antong~really stupid
oto ndada marutokutok~stupid senseless
otoan ho la~you're stupid
ou angkangmi ni~yes, that's your brother
ou angur hian~yes, it smells great
ou au mengkel~yeah I laughed
ou au monggop~Yes, I'm hiding
ou au tulus~Yes, I'm sincere
ou bonar ma~yes, that's right
ou borua ulihu~yes my beautiful girl
ou dialap annon~yes, pick me up later
ou haleon ekonomi~yes, the economic crisis
ou herek bagak~yes beautiful monkey
ou holongi hamletmu~Yes, love your girlfriend
ou hurang tutur~yeah that's rude
ou imbar sabulan~yes, a month's difference
ou ma tangkasna~yes, of course
ou marsaor mudar~Yes. mixed with blood
ou musem huhilala~yeah I guess too
ou on naniolina~yes, this is his wife
ou saudutna dipadenggan~yes, it will be fixed later
ou sega dalanna~yes, the road is broken
ou sun sonang~yes, ready to be safe
ou tangkas aleale~yes, definitely a friend
ou unang dibahen~yeah, don't make it
pa halus hu~it's my fault
pa hipas do~it's healthy
pa holan margere~it's just kidding
pa hugurat disi~I'll write it there
paandar pangkat hamuna~clarify your status
pabalikhon palak tangan~turning palm
pabandothu na nata~real itching
paboahon ima au~tell me that I
paburbanghon ndada boto~pretend not to know
paburbanghon parbadia sahali~pretending to be very holy
padamehon panggulsak dalan~secure road users
padan mi lipe~your promises are fake
padan parhorasan dibaritahon~the promise of salvation is proclaimed
padenggan molo sega~repair it if it's broken
padidit mallumpat timbo~squirrel jumps high
padimposhon inganan modom~make the bed
padohot ende on~including this song
padohot hita musem~including us too
padot dohot mardohar~persistent and lucky
paet tudos ngoluhu~bitter like my life
pagipagian ni siari~later
pagipagian ni siari~Then
pagodang sadoka angkang~increase your alms brother
pagodang tangiang mi~increase your prayers
pagodanghon ae sintahi~increase my love
pagodanghon ngalina manogot~adding to the cold morning
pagodanghu mangan dompol~eats mostly putty
pagodanghu mangan eme~eat mostly grain
pagodanghu mangan rumbungan~mostly tube feeding
pagogo hami tuhan~strengthen us God
pagogo mardompak ibana~be strong against him
pagogo rohami sondang~strengthen your heart nur
pahatop tingki on~speed up this time
pahean malua anture~neat free clothes
pahehe bagas tangiang~encouragement in prayer
pahompu parompuan nasasada~only granddaughter
pahompuhu andorang modom~my grandson is sleeping
paias jabu mi~clean your house
paias motor annon~clean the car later
paias motor nuaeng~clean the car now
paila tondong au~shame on my family
pailahon jolma asing~embarrassing others
paima au diruma~wait for me at home
paima au mangeahi~wait for me to follow
paima au tokkin~wait for me a moment
paima bioskop ungkap~wait for the cinema to open
paima habar burjuna~wait for the good news
paima hamubaon au~wait for my changes
paima haroroan au~wait for me
paima haroroanhu aleale~Wait for my arrival friend
paima haroroanhu dongan~Wait for my arrival friend
paima pamalosan hu~wait for my revenge
paima sajoma haroroanhu~just wait for my arrival
paimahon tunas nai~waiting for that shoot
pais na bisuk~clever deer
pajagarhon natuatua on~respect this elder
pajahajaha ni roha~guess
pajongjonghon sabiji tokke~set up an agency
pajumpang balu bagak~meet a beautiful widow
pajumpang dongan huta~meet local friends
pakansi na mandosdos~boring holiday
pakansi pamenakhon pikkiran~holidays calm the mind
paket di olati~package is limited
paket ni mura~the package is cheap
pala gogot didungdung~very difficult to achieve
pala jorbut loni~very scary times
pala manghurtik loguna~very touching song
pala satolop tangkas~totally agree for sure
pala satolop tontu~totally agree of course
pala sihol dalanan~really miss the road
pala tau ho~you are very compatible
palamot luhut bumbu~grind all the spices
palang kareta angin~bicycle bars
palas masin mi~Warm up your engine
pale suda susuda~beat the hell out of it
pale ulu hamuna~hit your heads
palias sian parsorian~kept away from disaster
palimahon baoana margoar~his five sons were named
paloas au patandahon~let me introduce
paloas au rampakna~let me be with him
paloas au tonahon~let me leave it
paloas patandahon diri~allow me to introduce myself
palobihu jotjot durak~too often humiliated
pamalum be roha~restore every heart
pamasuhon hepeng hurang~less cash income
pamatanghon tarae loja~my body feels tired
pambagason hata tuhan~deepening of God's word
pambahen guntur roha~heart troublemaker
pambahenan dohot pongkot~business and capital
pambahenan jolma jungkat~evil people's actions
pambahenan la ho~it's your business
pambahenan na diririt~selected business
pambahenanhi na sala~my actions were wrong
pambahenanmi ni naboritan~what you did was hurtful
pambahenanmu ndada halupahonon~your service will not be forgotten
pambahenanmu pala godang~your services are many
pamberengan ndada andar~unclear vision
pamborontak na las~warm rebel
pamilian juara bagas~election of administrators
pamuli anak baea~marry off sons
pamuli anak boru~marry the daughter
pamuli baoa hami~marry our son
pamuli parompuan nasasada~marrying a single woman
panagaman hu sintong~my guess is correct
panailian aha on~what view is this?
panangga sasudena manaritahon~dogs are all disappointing
panangko di radoti~kept thieves
panangko hape ho~apparently you are a thief
panaridaon na jengeng~scary appearance
panaru modom arian~nap time
pandaoni jolma hansit~heal the sick
pandaoni manjahahon mintorar~the healer recited a spell
pandaoni sihol niroha~healer of longing in the heart
pandapot na jeges~good suggestion
pandapotan ndada isi~no income
pandapotmu mangonai targora~your opinion about that
pande ansi ho~you cheater
pande bahen guntur~troublemaker
pande gogoi haliang~traveling rapist
pande jait dalanan~street tailor
pande margusting imbaru~new barber
pandirihon bangku ido~put up the bench
pandok aleale parompuan~the term female friend
pandok di baoa~a term for men
pandok jolma marujung~a term for a deceased person
pandok nanaeng ina~the term mother-to-be
pandok ondeng iburu~just say jealous
pandokan bere baoa~Batak term for nephew
pandokan hela bagas~the term internal son-in-law
pandokan mangarahon tuhu~the term invites you to be serious
pandokan na mandokhon~referring term
pandokan upa holi~bone wage sentence
pandongani ngolu salelengna~companion for life forever
pandongani pangoli baoa~groom's best man
pandonganion na tang~perfect inclusion
panduduran ni siaginon~sick
pane sahali simanjujungna~his head flashed
pane sillam habahaba~lightning, lightning, thunder
pangajian seni tompa~fine arts skills
pangalaho nadenggan dia~virtuous
pangalaho sisolhot ho~your cousin's behavior
pangalaosion pangalampis habalian~breakout coating violation
pangallang saridondon babi~pig dung eater
pangaluaran musem balga~expenses are also large
pangalului panganon hurje~forage seeker
panganon bahenan pardijabu~wife's homemade food
panganon tu lomona~food to his liking
pangaotion ruar lung~space exploration
pangapoion masuk bunbunan~motivation to join the association
panggadis sibuk babi~pork seller
panggonti dainang hu~my mother's replacement
panggul i hutur~hips sway
panggul ni manuk~chicken ass
panghasoloman borua batak~Batak girl fans
panghulingi boto boi~who knows maybe
pangido aek mohopna~ask for hot water
pangido alame angkang~ask for dodol, brother
pangido anak baju~ask for a shirt
pangido au hepengmi~ask me for your money
pangido bagian la~ask for a share
pangido dibapbap ibana~ask him to beat him
pangido hatop diririt~ask for a quick loan
pangido nibagas ibana~ask him
pangido pauli inum~ask for a drink
pangido sada parbue~ask for one
pangido uas hami~ask for our thirst
pangido urupi sungguli~please wake up
pangidoan anak siampudanhu~my youngest child's request
pangidoan na denggan~good offer
pangidoan nunga ro~the order has arrived
pangimbung lonap lonap~lust overflows
pangimbung marjuang hita~our desire to fight
panginona salaon bulung~benefits of leaf plants
pangituai pangituai ringkot~important figures
pangituai sarikkat parkarejo~trade union figures
pangkat sa marhamulian~his status is married
pangke bahasa sipaboana~use sign language
pangke bajum jo~put on your clothes first
pangke gorak nipi~use a dream premonition
pangke ompan aha~what bait do you use?
pangke pahean aha~what clothes do you wear?
pangke sarapan roti~use breakfast bread
pangkema miak kalapa~use coconut oil
pangkilalaan ndang targombar~indescribable feeling
pangkirimon na ngolu~living hope
panglatu arop marsabam~Singles please be patient
panglima botang barani~brave commander
pangoli boruboru bagak~beautiful bride
pangolu kodak mi~turn on your camera
pangoluhon bonar tondi~revive the spirit of the soul
pangoluhon haporseaon hita~live our faith
pangondian jagona ho~what a great lawyer you are
pangondol dohot hapogoson~stress and poverty.
pangsi ido mosok~the pan was burnt
panguhum na garapus~careless judge
pangunsandean ngolu hu~my lifeline
pangurdotna denggan hian~the movement is very good
pangurupion dohot marminggu~charity and worship
panipu kalas nabalga~big-time fraudster
paniroi ndang mangantoi~the supervisor ignored him
panjaloon dohot inganan~welcome and place
panjaloon ginjang turunna~welcome to the descent
panjouon tu baoa~you
panjouon tu borua~sister
panolangi pa godang~there are lots of reserves
panolsolion parpudi ingot~regret later remembering
panongosan sian dia~shipping from where?
panopa so malate~smart
panopano baro gurap~tinea versicolor scabies ringworm
panortor bolus borngin~cross night dancer
panortor borngin bolus~cross night dancers
panortor na jeges~good dancer
panosa bugang hu~eraser of my wounds
pansar di bohi~squirt in the face
pantang so malo~pretending to be clever
pantom di danggur~spear thrown
pantun sahali babami~Your mouth is very polite
pantun sorta marpalilung~good manners
panurat dohot buku~stationery and books
panurirang jeremia mamarentahon~the prophet jeremiah commanded
paolooloi hata amongmu~obey your father's words
papatuhon ruang lung~conquer space
papos ma rohami~be sure of your heart
papos sintahi tuho~confirm my love for you
par banjar mora~complement the rich line of actors
parade dohot habasaron~serve with friendliness
parade parlapihan ias~prepare a clean container
paraloan alu birubiru~fighting match
paraloan sian hami~resistance from us
parangan ise jo~who were the soldiers?
parangem mora bodat~you act like a monkey
parangem tudos panangga~you act like a dog
paranggap jolma matua~guardian of parents
paranggap roha hu~my heart's Guardian
parasingan gabe sada~differences become one
parasingan na jeges~beautiful difference
parau dohot doton~boats and nets
parau dohot lautan~boats and seas
parau muse marsadi~the boat stopped again
parbadiai goar tuhan~glorify the name of God
parbarita barita nauli~evangelist
parbinege hata batak~hearing the Batak language
parbinege ingkon pinsur~hearing must be sharp
parbonjoran na jeges~beautiful stopover
parbue ansimun ende~red cucumber
parbue eme rumar~empty rice grains
parbue kalapa poso~young coconut fruit
parbue kopi ramos~ripe coffee fruit
parbue mangga halonganan~desert mango fruit
parbue tarutung marsuga~prickly durian fruit
parbue tarutung torsok~delicious durian fruit
parbue tumpal deua~god's crown
parbuena maruarna hunik~the fruit is yellow
pardagingon dohot partondion~physical and spiritual
pardagingon sidua jambar~effeminate physique
pardalanan na mangalojai~tiring trip
pardamean dohot holong~peace and love
pardijabu angkang dia~Which brother's wife?
pardijabu bao baoa~male in-law's wife
pardijabu nahinan monding~the deceased's wife died
pardompahan ama mi~your father's forehead
pardompahan na bolak~broad forehead
pardomuan holang tais~remote meeting
pardosa na denggan~good sinner
pareakhon harbangan sikkola~towards the school gate
paredangedang hinauli indonesia~explorer of the beauty of Indonesia
paredangedang mangalaosi sundut~adventurers across generations
pareman dia on~Which thug is this?
parende marabit rara~singer in red
pareso ama mi~control your father
pareso hot dianggapi~control is maintained
pareso molo sala~correct if wrong
pargabus jolma ni~that guy's a liar
pargabus ni jolma~people are liars
parhaseang jolma ondeng~just take advantage of people
parhasomal manunsi tangan~make a habit of washing your hands
parhata marminggu minggu~Sunday worship protocol
parhatutas tu hamusuon~weapon
parhobas ni kantor~employee
parhobason anak borua~preparation of girls
parhobason ho beha~how are you preparing?
parhobason sipanganon sudung~preparation of special dishes
parhorasan dohot hatuaon~safety and blessings..
pariama aha tulang~what harvest uncle?
pariama didia oloma~where to harvest? go ahead
pariama gadong insir~sweet potato harvest
paributhu ho peang~you're noisy
parjahat kalas nabalga~hardened criminal
parjahat na denggan~good villain
parjahat na manaban~charming villain
parjolo borngin ni~premiere that night
parjolo habangsoon indonesia~First, Indonesian nationality
parjolo mandok mauliate~first say thank you
parjuangan ni ulubalang~the struggle of heroes
parkakas manangkup dengke~fishing equipment
parkakas pande godung~builder's equipment
parkarejo di buhit~workers on the hill
parkarejo di harangan~workers in the forest
parkarejo di hauma~workers in the rice fields
parkarejo di lombang~workers in the abyss
parkarejo ndada hasea~useless employees
parkarejo pambuat kalapa~coconut harvester
parkarejoanna dang jeges~the work is not good
parlagutan na marnidok~meaningful gathering
parlampusung tu gilok~cocoon to caterpillar
parluga musem tipul~the rower also broke
parmeaman 4 musa~number game
parmeaman dipungka dongan~the game begins guys
parmeaman imbaru dipungka~new game starts
parmeaman mardalan hamsar~the game runs smoothly
parmossak marbangko jungkat~warriors are evil
parmossak marpangalaho jungkat~evil character warrior
parolopolopon balosan ali~celebration of reward
parompuan ingkon massari~women have to earn money
parompuan pailahon ho~shameful woman you are
parompuanna musem rintop~the woman is also itchy
parpadanan dohot di~agreement with on
parpadanan na tongtong~eternal covenant
parporangon taru nagara~war between countries
parpudi sadihari mulak~When was the last time you came home?
parrohahon tanda tanda~pay attention to the signs
parruderude sa adaran~the artist in the field
parsahat i jabu~Arriving at home
parsaroan dolidoli namarbaju~youth camp
parsidohot balang jesus~loyal follower of Jesus
parsinta bou bodat~want the smell of underarms
parsirangan mambahen rittik~Divorce makes you crazy
parsuma nari poso~it's useless to be young
partahanhon binsan boi~keep it up while you can
partahanhon parbogason mi~maintain your relationship
partano batoan bagas~inner fort
partano batoan lung~natural fortress
partano batoan partahanan~defensive fortress
partano batoan tihus~enemy fortress
partano batoan tolap~powerful fortress
partaonan tubi manuk~cockfighting season
partenggen tata roha~heartless drunkard
partinggal naung sun~archive is ready
partonggol muse aha~what other banner?
partonggol na manangani~the ensign takes care of it
partonggol silang tandana~the banner of the cross is the sign
partukkang ra maradi~The mechanic wants to take a break
parungkil gurat jumolo~front line fighters
pasada hami salelengna~unite us forever
pasada parasingan asi~reconcile the differences dear
pasadama hami sahatopna~unite us as soon as possible
pasadama roha ho~unite your hearts
pasagat diri mi~satisfy yourself
pasang ampe angkang~put up your mat, bro
pasang pa ma~put it on
pasidinghon tading sondot~avoid staying up
pasipma habahaba gasagasaon~silence the raging storm
pasipma mirdong au~shut up, I'm dizzy
pasohot anak parompuan~marry off daughters
pasohothon anak parompuan~marry off daughters
pasombu ae masihol~vent feelings of longing
pasombu au manamuei~let me entertain
pasombu ibana jamporon~leave him confused
pasombu ma mate~let it die
pasombu ondeng mamersep~just let it dry
pasombu panangga gabe~let the dog be
pasonang jolma matua~please parents
passorion songon panangga~socializing like dogs
pastap anggo barani~slap if you dare
pastap ondeng babana~just slap him in the mouth
pasuda ma allangonmu~finish your food
pasuda ma manganna~finish eating it
pasupasu dohot burabura~Batak blessings and curses
pasupasu durus doras~blessings flow in abundance
pasupasu jabu balatuk~household blessings
pasupasu na denggan~blessed
pasupasu tuhan tanak~God's blessings are abundant
pat au borit~my feet hurt
patalak pintu jolo~open the front door!
patandahon rampak au~introduce me
patandahon tu tarombo~introduces genealogy
pathu ho pollat~you step on my feet
patimbohu ho olo~your height huh?
patoguhon ae parsadaan~strengthen the sense of unity
patoguhon karejo rampak~strengthen cooperation
patu dohot olo~obedient and obedient
patu jo hamuna~obey first
patu taradop ruhut~obey the rules
patuathon sian ulu~lowering from the head
patudoshon godang ugasan~compare many things
patudu di ahu~show me
patudu gombarmu iboto~show me your photo sister
patudu la tuhan~show me God
patudu mandapothon au~show me
patudu molo balga~show me how big it is
patuduma dalanmu tuhan~show me your way God
patuduma na sonangdo~show me what's happy
patulus dohot tadinghon~relax and leave
patulus halahoan hu~let me go
patupa sigaret lima~provide five cigarettes
patupahon ulaula surat~provide stationery
paturehon hata hu~correct my language
patut boho loni~exactly right this time
patut leleng mulakna~it's a long time coming home
patut mohop pinggolhu~my ears are hot
paulak annon ni~take it home later
paulak kartu au~give me my card back
paulak tu medan~return to the field
pauli jo bilut~make a room first
pauli pipi mi~beautify your face
pauli tudos somal~repair as usual
peak disi, diadui~lying there
peak mamintor modom~lie down straight to sleep
peakpeak dohot salimut~lie down with a blanket
pedan ae siparjehe~friend feels traitorous
pedan bagas hajahaton~friends in crime
pedan baoa satorbang~male friends of the same age
pedan ho jabir~your friend is talkative
pedan marbada diruma~friends fighting at home
pedan pangoli baoa~the groom's friend
pedan pedan haholonganhu~my favorite friends
pedan sahuta sajabu~village friends, housemates,
pedan saparmeaman hami~our playmates
pege gambiri hasior~ginger, candlenut, galangal
peleng mate satongkin~spoiled little brother
peleng pelengna angkang~spoiled spoiled bro
peleng sa ho~you're spoiled
peleng sahali hamletmu~Your boyfriend is so spoiled
pencopet bedah bedah~lapa lapa bandit
peol tu hambirang~bent to the left
pere di au~free for me
pesta allang inum~eating and drinking banquet
peti mati inggu~rose stem
pidato olap hagompison~speech about health
pidato olap haiason~speech about cleanliness
pidong bagas salaoar~birds in pants
pidong pidong martutu~birds chirping
pidong ponji tembak~cotton-shooting bird
pidong sa hoda~the bird is a horse
pigapiga uniunian uhalan~some similarities in discussion
pikkir hamlet au~my girlfriend thought
pikkir pangke utokmi~think using your brain
pikkiran au pinasingot~my mind was reminded
pikkiran mangareap reap~thoughts wander
pikkiran na timbul~lofty thoughts
pikkiran ni rohahu~my mind
pikkiranna bagas rohana~thought in his heart
pikkiranna di dia~where is his mind?
pikkirhon tarlobi hian~think first
pilat amam puntar~Your father's dick broke
pilatna bou i~Her genitals smell like that
pillit na denggan~choose the good one
pinahamat asal hangoluon~considered the source of life
pinahamat sijolojolo tubu~considered ancestors
pinahan musem ni~animals too
pinahan na diondihon~protected animals
pinahan na patarushon~breastfeeding animals
pinahan paranggap jabu~house guard animal
pinalolo ansiat lompan~serve as a side dish
pinarade dohot diparade~prepared and served
pinarsinta ni roha~desire
pinasa sibontar mata~Dutch jackfruit
pinggan na saksak~sparkling plate
pinggol di mambege~ears to hear
pinggol hu hansit~my ears hurt
pinggol mi boasa~what's wrong with your ears?
pinggol mi dauk~Your ears are soft
pinggol mi dorsun~Your ears are dirty
pinggolhu hansit sahali~my ears really hurt
pinggolhu tartupuk aek~my ears are getting water
pingkal ni pusupusu~furious
pinjil pandapot ondeng~just a different opinion
pinsangpinsang na denggan~good punishment
pinsangpinsang na mangajari~educational punishment
pinsangpinsang na sintong~correct punishment
pinsangpinsang na tudos~appropriate punishment
pintor dohot tingkos~honest and sporty
pintoron boi pa~it's true, right?
pintu janjela sompit~narrow window doors
pipi bada rohana~stupid face
pipi ho mosok~your face is burnt
pipi hu jongir~my face is scary
pipi o mansam~O kind of face
pipi pipi bunsiton~full face
pir loni hapalana~his head is hard
pir manghuling ondok~loud rhythmic sound
pir sahali hosomna~the enemy is very tough
pirapira mi balga~Your testicles are big
pirdo hangoluon on~the hardness of this life
pirdo hutaku dongan~the harshness of my village, brother
piring besar itu~who is i
pirus mamatehon targora~the deadly virus
pirus na jongir~scary virus
pirus on boi~this virus can
pisat pitolot on~press this pencil.
pissang ibana mananggo~forbid him to cut
pistar badia pasihar~intelligent, noble, shining
pistar toruk roha~smart, humble
pitolot mu jeges~your pencil is good
pitung mata ho~blind your eyes
pitung pitu pompar~blind seven generations
poda bahen asi~advice for darling
poda dohot poda~advice and mandate
poda dohot poda~advice and proverbs
poda dohot soso~advice and advice
poda na asing~other teaching
poda na disurat~the proverbs were written
poda na jeges~good advice
poda ni parhauma~advice from farmers
poda tudos aha~what kind of advice?
podang na marbada~clashing swords
podoman hu tolbak~my mattress broke
podoman naung diboan~the mattress has been brought
podomanna damor sahali~the mattress is very soft
pola godang saep~you have to have a lot of patience
pola maralus balosan~must reply
pollat kambona rungkungmu~stand on your neck
pollung torus hatahatahu~keep denying what I said
ponggol marsiajar angkang~brother's learning stage
ponggolhon baba mi~break your mouth
ponji uarna bontar~white cotton
ponot aek bondar~sewer water channel
ponot andorang dipangke~channel is in use
ponsahon aruaru ni~break that throat
ponsaponsa ni hassa~shard
porang paduahon mapultak~the second war broke out
porman porman pintor~honest piety
porsea hata tuhan~believe God's word
porsea sopola halenseng~believe without a doubt
pos di rohahi~sure in my heart
pos hansit roha~sure hurt
pos ni roha~trust
pos ni roha~confidence
pos ni roha~hope
posa hansit sahali~really sick
posi roha hu~saddens my heart
poso aha hamuna~how young are you?
pote au das~My map arrived
poto na nangkin~the photo just now
poto sataon sahali~photo once a year
potongan sa rohana~her appearance is heartfelt
pudi sian sirarion~end of discussion
pudun mangolu anduhur~turtle dove snare
puji jahoba sitompa~praise God the creator
pukul ama mi~hit your father
pulha dungkon tongtang~collapsed after the battle
pulik muse hitado~we're apart again
pulo na tadinghononhu~the island I left behind
pungkul sia bolus~past nine o'clock
pungkul sia manogot~nine o'clock
pungu naung sidangolonhi~my suffering is complete
punguan anak parompuan~group of girls
punguan manisia bagak~cool group of people
punguan metmet daldal~gloomy little mass
punguan na dimpos~solid group
punguan ni hatahata~dictionary
punsu ni butuha~anus
punsu ni butuha~anus
puntar partigatiga parbagasan~broke out inland traders
puntar sadasa on~broke it myself
puntar ulu ho~break your head
pupus ni tondihu~my darling
pupus ni tondihu~My favorite
purba ni jolma~destiny
purun api hangoluon~kindle the fire of life
pusaka di jujung~heirlooms are upheld
pusatna on abatabat~The point is, this is a challenge
pusok parboniagaan portibi~World Trade Center
pusu ni roha~hate
pusu ni roha~feud
pusuk hau semara~spruce tree shoots
putik ari jolo~pick it next day
putik ari marsogot~pick it tomorrow
putput gadong insir~pull out the sweet potato
putput imbulu gedekgedek~pluck armpit hair
putri muse bagak~the princess is also beautiful
ra aha siluana~what gift do you want?
ra angkup ngolu~want a life partner
ra au topar~I want to punch him
ra di alut~want to get a massage?
ra di sulang~want to be bribed
ra didongani modom~want to sleep with you
ra diharat ibana~want to bite him
ra dilehon tiruan~I want to give an example
ra harat bibir~want to bite my lip
ra harat rungkung~want to bite the neck
ra ho tole~do you want to have sex?
ra hu galmit~I want to pinch
ra hu marsadi~I want to stop
ra hu pamate~I want to kill
ra hu topar~want me to punch you?
ra hudia hamu~where you go
ra huponggolhon rungkungmu~want me to break your neck?
ra lao ado~want to go somewhere
ra lao edang~want to go on a picnic
ra lima kilo~I want five kilos
ra lua jo~I want to run first
ra mandabuhon au~want to take me down
ra mandohoti jojak~want to follow in the footsteps
ra manompang mangan~want to grab a bite to eat
ra manongos paket~want to send a package
ra manuhat dalan~want to measure the road
ra manuhor silua~want to buy a gift
ra mardomu ho~want to join you
ra mardongan ndada~want to be friends or not
ra marhua ho~want to reach you
ra marsadi sahala~want to stop charisma
ra ndada didongani~I don't want to be accompanied
ra pariama suhat~want to harvest taro
ra sadia sinamotna~how much do you want?
ra saut datu~want to be a shaman
ra sundat orom~I want to break my fast
ra tutung panutungan~want to burn it
radot anggim parompuan~take care of your little sister
radot babami tak~keep your mouth in tune
radot barang on~take care of this thing
radot didia ho~watch where you are
radot hasangapon amonghu~guard my father's honor
radot hasehatonmu dohot~take care of your health and
radot pangalaho ho~watch your behavior
radot panghataion hamuna~watch your words
radoti hepeng jo~save money first
ragi ekonomi jahudi~Jewish economic style
ragi na jeges~beautiful pattern
rahutan au lambas~My ties are loose.
rahutan dongan saama~sibling bond
rahutan na jogi~strong bond
raja duiung jaotjaot~The mermaid king got lost
raja na himpal~complete king
raja na mora~rich king
rajana jolma batak~the king is the Batak people
rajuman dohot tapa~reflection and meditation
raksa boi dihurak~knowledge can be extracted
raksa hurung sajongkal~science of inch brackets
raksa parbinotoan lung~natural science
raksa parbinotoan ni~that science
rambon ni ari~late afternoon
ramot abak demak~good luck and prosperity
ramot ari parbogason~happy engagement
ramot borngin anggia~good night sister
ramot borngin boruboru~good night ladies
ramot borngin puang~good night guys
ramot botari anggia~good afternoon sis
ramot dalan amanghu~goodbye my father
ramot dalan puang~good luck buddy
ramot delmek luhut~safe and sound everyone
ramot ginjang oroanna~congratulations on your fiancé
ramot malua malua~have a good day
ramot mamorsan silang~happy carrying the cross
ramot mandalanhon unjun~good luck with your exam
ramot manegai dolidoli~good luck destroying virgins
ramot mangan lomang~enjoy eating lemang
ramot mangatim sipanganon~enjoy your meal
ramot manogot hallethu~good morning my boy
ramot manogot lung~good morning universe
ramot manomunomu pariama~welcome to the harvest
ramot marganda umur~happy growing old
ramot marhalado tuhan~good luck serving God
ramot marholong asi~happy love
ramot markarejo angkanghi~good work my brother
ramot marsonang olo~have a good time relaxing okay?
ramot modom ulihu~good night my beauty
ramot moru umurmu~congratulations on your age
ramot parsikkola marsogot~happy education tomorrow
ramot potang asi~good evening darling
ramot potang holonghi~good evening, my darling
ramot sohot daniel~Happy marriage Daniel
ramot timbul itohu~good luck my brother
rampa loni ho~you're nosy
rampak aha lompanna~what are the side dishes?
rampak bere jo~with my nephew first
rampak dohot botik~same with papaya
rampak nanaeng pardijabu~with his future wife
rampak panghulingi hamuna~who are you with?
rampak panghulingi na~with who?
rampak rampak bibit~equally wise
rampak rampak daniel~Same with Daniel
rampak rampak pahompuhu~same with my grandson
rampak son muse~same here too
ramuan kue lampis~layer cake recipe
ranggiting situak natonggi~honey bee
rante kareta angin~bicycle chain
rap angkup karejo~with coworkers
rap baoa haholonganmu~with your boyfriend
rap dohot naniolina~together with his wife
rap dongan pangaranto~with migrant friends
rap ise ma~with whom?
rap pasada nipi~together unite dreams
rapma dohot ho~same with you
rapma hita modom~let's sleep
rarat rarat hepeng~spread the money
rasip na tois~eradicate the arrogant
rasun sagi boruboru~poison for women
rata bulung pinasa~green jackfruit leaves
rata rata ondeng~just flat
raterate ibana ni~he's upset
raterate ibana on~he's upset
renta agan rangkak~compact even though far away
renta aganan rangkak~compact even though it is far away
repot ndang manontu~unpredictably busy
reso di son~check here
retes sahali ho~you're so fragile
ri diholangholang gandum~tares among the wheat
ria ni roha~joy
riang ni ate~excitement
riar loni bahasam~Your language is a bitch
ribak lapik tu~tear off the base
ribak salaoar ho~tear your drawstring
rimang dokhu on~pay attention to what I said
rimas dohot pabali~angry and expelled
rimas mi nariting~your anger is fierce
rimas suru martapian~angry, told me to take a shower
rimasmu ni beha~how angry are you?
rimasmu songon bolis~you're angry like a devil
rimpa ma hita~we are together
rimrim sintahi holonghu~You're welcome, my love, my love
ringgit sitio soara~money
ringgit sitio soara~Money
ringkiringki batak ale~Peranakan Batak yes
ringkot dohot tonggi~cute and sweet
ringkot loni panangga~cute dog
rinsan ma hirehire~tore the curtains
rio i anju~rarely petted
rio manopot hamuna~I rarely see you
ripas ho asi~you're dead darling
ripas sajoma ho~you're just going to die
ris dohot manogot~enough with the morning
ris naung sidangolonhi~enough of my suffering
risa raksa adongma~philosophy of science is
risi sintong ho~you're really rude
riting ni roha~furious
riting ni roha~angry
rittik di dalanan~crazy on the streets
ro ganti margonti~come and go
ro ma tanak~come in abundance
ro sopola diontang~came uninvited
ro tu son~let
ro tudos bandit~looks like a mugger
ro tuson marende~let's sing
ro tuson saor~let's mingle
roa jambulan mi~your hair is ugly
rodi dia saonari~where are you now?
rodina manggasak parsirangan~thereby speeding up the divorce
rodina marpanghorhon hasuksesan~thus influencing success
rodina naeng didapot~so you will get it
roha hamu mardangkai~your heart is split
roha ho mardangka~your heart is broken
roha huhut mental~heart and mind
roha na dihansiti~hurt heart
roha na ias~sincere
roha na marsigorgor~turbulent heart
roha na marutokutok~wise heart
roha na rantos~intelligent
roha na rantos~consideration
roha niba manombo~my mind was racing
roha niba riar~my thoughts run wild
roha on tarseat~this heart is torn
roha roha pareso~carefully control
rohahi busisa asi~my heart is restless darling
rohahi lungun itohu~my heart is sad my brother
rohangku mardangka angkang~My heart is broken, brother
roma hita manarehon~let us prepare
roma hita margareja~let us worship
roma hita sumbaiang~let us pray
roma rampak jojak~let's follow the trail
ronda jaga borngin~patrol, night watch
rondangma bintang purba~the morning star rises
rongkap saumur ngoluhu~mate for the rest of my life
rongkaphu asa parapat~my soul mate then bring me close
rongkaphu isi dipudi~my soul mate is behind me
ronsan angkup buntak~dirty with mud
ropang jambulan au~my hair fell out
roro sillam ho~you were struck by lightning
roro suda alom~crush your opponents
rotak dohot guting~shabby and dirty
roti na marsumbu~cassava
ruang igung balga~big nostrils
ruangna na ginagat~the hole is shit
ruar somal lojana~incredibly tired
ruar somal pambahenanmu~your service is extraordinary
ruas na imbaru~new congregation
ruas ni suhu~temperature is an expert
ruhut mangalithon ulos~rules for wearing ulos
ruhut mangarorot daging~rules for caring for the body
rujiruji hagogoon tedak~open force calculation
ruksi sahali obukna~his hair is very curly
ruksi tanganhu binahenna~he made my hands curl
rumang diri mi~image of yourself
rumar gadis heang~selling private parts is haram
rumar poti sa~the box is empty
rumpak jolma jogi~strong people fall
rumpak musem au~I fell too
rumpak musem hape~apparently fell too
rundut luhut jadina~it's all tangled up
rungka sorini ari~danger
rupana lam daoldaolon~his face grew paler
rupana suman ompungna~his face resembled his grandfather
rupana tudos tokke~he looks like a boss
rura marhobot langit~misty valley
rusia tu talas~Russia outright
sa pardompahan adongma~his forehead is
sa tu sanding~it's sanding
saae anggi sadasa~feels like my own sister
saae ra patialaon~I felt like I was going to faint
sabalga portibi on~as big as this world
sabam au tuhan~I surrender to God
sabam demi tuhan~surrender for God's sake
sabam dohot haadongon~surrender to the situation
sabam naeng haadongon~surrender to the situation
sabarma bagas pangunjunan~be patient in trials
sabarma nanget nanget~be patient, take it slow
sabarma tahan saotik~be patient, hold on a little
sabashon modommu holong~Enjoy your sleep dear
sabi loni bohim~your face is scary
sabiji aek simalolongki~a tear in my eye
sabola diri ondeng~private line only
sabola sian dia~route from where
sabolahu tarbereng busisa~beside me looked restless.
sabulan dungkon parangan~a month after the troops
sabungan pidong darapati~mother dove
sada bagian ondeng~just one portion
sada mudarna hita~we have one blood
sada patung hau~one wooden statue
sada sijolojolo tubu~one ancestor
sada solup ondeng~just one liter
sadalan sa ni~that's in line with that
sadari dungkon manghamsarhon~the day after launch
sadia arga barangna~how much does the item cost?
sadia arga sanghae~how much is a quarter
sadia arga sinamotna~what is the dowry price?
sadia arga unte~how much do oranges cost?
sadia ari dihuta~how many days in the village?
sadia dapotmu nangkin~how much did you get?
sadia dasingan daging~how much do you weigh?
sadia hepeng upana~how much is his salary?
sadia kilo on~how many kilos is this?
sadia koper diboan~how many suitcases are you carrying?
sadia loni marbogas~how many times have you had sex?
sadia lonsam bukum~how many books do you have?
sadia lonsam sa~how much is the total?
sadia na ditongos~how much was sent?
sadia nomor denggan~what is a good number
sadia nomor taliponmu~What is your phone number
sadia ongkos marjanji~how much does the contract cost?
sadia ra diseat~how much do you want to cut?
sadia tongon dijalo~how much is suitable for request?
sadihari au diensenghon~when will I be proud?
sadihari bangke ditanom~when the body is buried
sadihari boi siat~when can it come true?
sadihari diunung ni~when was it proposed?
sadihari hamuna ro~when will you arrive
sadihari hita rambon~when do we run away?
sadihari hita timbung~when do we jump in?
sadihari ho ditanom~when were you buried?
sadihari ho rapot~when are you in court?
sadihari ho saedo~when will you finish?
sadihari ho sijulejule~when are you social gathering?
sadihari marboras mangga~when do mangoes bear fruit?
sadihari mulak parpudi~when was the last time you came home?
sadihari muse manganamnam~when will you taste it again?
sadihari sae taru~when is the delivery finished?
sadihari tongoshon au~when send me
sadihari topot au~when do you propose to me?
sae tigatiga parbue~finished selling fruit
saehon sasara dolidoli~finish it like a man
saema luhut ni~that's enough
saep dohot tuani~patience and gratitude
saep mambege arsak~patiently listen to complaints
saep ni mangalojai~being patient is tiring
sagal bagas karo~satiety in Karo language
sagal mangan juhut~satisfied
sagang longo sadasa~desolate alone
sagelleng ahpe soarahu~no matter how small my voice is
sagi au hepengmi~give me your money
sagi bangkin hu~for my worries
sagi jolma parasian~for loved ones
sagi josua huandehon~I will give it to Joshua
sagogo aha dirim~how strong you are
saguman sun hinsat~everything is ready to move
sahalak dolidoli margoar~a young man named
sahalak ma ho~you are yourself
sahalakna pabalgahon hami~alone raised us
sahali loni akor~once agreed
sahatma pasupasu i~the blessing comes
sahatopna oloi asi~as soon as possible, darling
sahit begu antuk~ghost disease
sahit na dibahen~disease caused
sahitna mangatasi hansit~it hurts more than it hurts.
sai balga tumpalmu~your grace is very great
sai tong lengket~so it stays good
sai tuarang i~very popular in
saingan hami ate~supposedly we are not
saingkondo ho jalo~you should accept it
sajabu dohot simatua~at home with in-laws
sajabu sirang podoman~in the same house, divorced, mattress
sajom ae sataon~an hour feels like a year
sal sian dia~Where's the scarf from?
sala alusan mi~your answer is wrong
sala di panggomgomi~wrong in office
sala sa merung~It's wrong to be skinny
sala sada bingkasna~one of the reasons
sala sahalak parhobas~one of the officers
sala tongos barita~sent wrong news
sala tongos hape~apparently sent the wrong one
salaksak alai bongak~bald but handsome
salam hormat lae~your fault respect brother-in-law
salamat borngin mika~good night micah
salamat lao lansung~good luck traveling
salamat rapot dongan~good luck friend
salamathon haholonganhu on~save my darling
salang pigapiga taon~after several years
salaoar bagas ribak~torn panties
salaoar hita rinsan~our pants are torn
salese mamintor maderder~the keel immediately melted
sali hepengmi jo~borrow your money first
sali hepengmu saratus~borrow a hundred of your money
sali loting angkang~borrow my brother's macis
sali suri mi~borrow your comb
salomo ateatem ma~whatever you like
salomo ho ma~whatever you like
salpu manghurbit das~then shake until
samansam kue kue~a kind of cake cake
samansam somak ramba~a kind of bush
samansam suansuanan marsuga~a kind of thorny plant
samansam suansuanan marsuga~a kind of thorny plant
samar dohot pabalihon~infected and transmitted
sambok mora horbo~whip like a buffalo
sampema ombasna manubuhon~it was time to give birth
samponggol surgo metmet~a little piece of heaven
sampulu patik jahoba~ten commandments of God
sampuran set uhiran~carving coloring mixture
sandok arta ginonggomanna~all his possessions
sang adong dope~it's still there
sanga mangajari ibana~had time to teach him
sanga tolu borngin~had three nights
sangap ni jahoba~glory to the gods
sangga hudokhon ni~when I said that
sangga luhut tarnono~when everyone is asleep
sangkaphu roha hudok~I mean I mean I say
sangkapsangkap ni roha~desire
sangke kareta angin~bicycle hanger
santabi angkang anggi~excuse me brothers and sisters
santabi au bilolangon~sorry, I'm nervous
santabi au haholonganna~sorry, I'm his girlfriend
santabi au haluaon~sorry I missed it
santabi au parmonang~sorry, I'm the winner
santabi au parmonang~sorry, I'm the winner
santabi da lae~sorry, brother-in-law
santabi hami olo~excuse us
santabi molo toho~sorry if that's true
santabi molo toho~excuse me if that's true
santabi naung biraon~sorry for being rude
santabi olo meme~sorry, mom
santektek ombun parungkilan~a drop of dew of sadness
santisanti hu on~this is my offering
santisanti pujion angkup~praise offering by
santokin au tarsintak~suddenly I gasped
santokin di sea~temporarily removed
santokin ibana ojak~suddenly he stood up
santokin mamikkirhon mandohar~while thinking about acquiring
santokin mangatim hasandirionhu~while enjoying my solitude
santopak demi santopak~step by step
sao sibontar mata~Dutch sapodilla
saok na masak~cooked fried
saok pisang mosok~fried charred banana
saoloan sada roha~agree with one heart
saonari adong jakarta~now there is the city of Jakarta
saonari di banjar~now beaten
saonari soto haduan~now it's soup the day after tomorrow
saong saong sipanganon~food hood hood
saong tu hauma~hood to the fields
saor ho hape~It seems you're slang
saotik alai maol~little but valuable
saotik dia tabo~a little bit is delicious,
saotik ro pinjil~looks a little different
sapala ndada mangarti~Absurdly don't understand
saparbinotoan au ido~as far as I know
saparbinotoan au ou~As far as I know, yes
sapata bahenbahenan manisia~due to human activities
sapata karejo borngin~due to night work
sapata meam api~as a result of playing with fire
sapata naeng ro~karma will come
sapata raterate naporsuk~as a result of despair
sapata tangkas isi~karma definitely exists
sapi ni tanggo~like tough guys
sara ibana marhatai~the way he talks
sara mamangke pamberengan~how to use sight
sara mambahensa beha~how to make it
sara mangontapi pirus~how to prevent viruses
sara tolap on~this powerful method
sarang hae jo~thighs first
sarapan sibuk aili~boar meat breakfast
saratus hepeng logam~one hundred coins
saratus ribu ondeng~just one hundred thousand
saribu roha husungkun~a thousand hearts I ask
saridondon mi bou~Your poop stinks
saridondon sa bou~the poop smells
sarima lapatanna sadasa~look for the meaning yourself
sarima sampohul eme~look for a handful of rice
saringan na horis~keris sieve
saripehu mangapian hian~my wife is very jealous
saripehu naung didia~where is my wife?
saripehu nunga ro~my wife has come
sarita ari on~history today
sarita sian ujungna~story from the end
saroha sa au~I'm of one mind
saroha sada sipareakan~one goal in mind
sasahali ndada ahaaha~once in a while is okay
sasahali ndada masala~once in a while is fine
sasara ojak dipaso~officially disbanded
sasintongna aha antongan~what do you actually mean?
sasintongna parila au~I'm actually shy
sasude sada ginonggomanna~everything belongs to him
sasudena bahenmu ina~everything is for you mom
sasudena inum kopi~everyone drinks coffee
sasudena pala manaritahon~all very disappointing
sasudena saor rampak~everything blends together
satabo ateatem ma~whatever you like
sataon dohot satorusna~a year and so on
sataon ndada pajumpang~haven't seen each other in a year
sataon sondot satorusna~a year onwards
satolop ate tole~agreeing is not having sex
satonga ngolu hu~half of my life
satur padaohon nona~chess keeps senility at bay
saut alani pakansi~so it's because of the holidays
saut ambar lange~so it's a swimming pool
saut au alimoshon~so I imagine
saut boha ma~so that's how it is
saut boi diburi~so it can be cleaned
saut didia hutam~so where is your village?
saut didia rongkaphu~So where is my soul mate?
saut didongani modom~so sleep with you?
saut giot mengendos~so I want to have sex
saut gomos ma~so be strong
saut hona gotani~so I got the sap
saut jolma parbegu~be a disbeliever
saut keker tembak~so aim and shoot
saut lobi jempek~so it's shorter
saut ma parbegu~so you're a disbeliever
saut manguhal sigaret~So discussing cigarettes
saut mansam dia~so what kind?
saut marganda parbinotoan~so you increase your knowledge
saut meam domino~so play dominoes
saut monangdo idia~so where do you win?
saut nangkok pinggolhu~so up my ears
saut ndada pestana~so it's not a party
saut parkarejo nagari~become a civil servant
saut pate ngaet~So, right, achieve it
saut ressok luhut~so it's all noisy
saut songon rittik~so it's a bit crazy
saut songonon panghorhonna~so this is the result
saut tarubati siholhu~so my longing is cured
saut unang peus~so don't be arrogant
saut unang pulik~so don't separate
saut urupi dianju~so please understand
seang na tarputik~darling who was picked
seang panudu mangasanghon~stated the indication of relying
sedan roha on~this heart sedan
sejenis kupu-kupu putih~touch+touch
semi sintuhu tupa~semi-formal perhaps
sendor sendor sogar~Fresh dawet cendol
senen karejo dang~Monday work no
serak jatuh berserakan~croaked
serak labang ondeng~just spread the nails
serak lagak jo~be handsome first
sere intanna taringot~remember the gold and diamonds
serep hau bulu~under a bamboo tree
serep sihar mataniari~under the sunlight
seri pe dang~not even a series
sesa ni asi~delete it darling
si apala utus~really
si gadis tambak~the grave seller
si gali gali~the matchmaker
si jalo bara~the one who received the chocolate
si ma tudung~it's the hood
si rambonon medan~the short-sighted man of Medan
si rimbun rara~the red leaf
si tudung tudung~the hood
sia pasang partontangan~nine pairs of contradictions
sia taon salpu~nine years passed
siahapon na denggan~good luck
siahapon partigatiga metmet~the fate of small traders.
siak manang tonggi~spicy or sweet
siak ni bagi~poverty
siak ni bagi~languish
sialap ingkau humutur~tongue wagging
sialap ingkau margara~fiery tongue
sialapingkau alit bolit~twisted tongue
sian apotan mulak~from the south home
sian bagas nipim~from inside your dreams
sian bibir pasir~from the beach
sian di dalnat~than a pug
sian dia bonana~where does the source come from?
sian dia gaitna~where's the funny thing from?
sian ginjang tolping~from the top of the cliff
sian mara mara~from harm
sian muara bolak~from the wide estuary
sian ompung dolihu~from my grandfather
sian rampusan porang~from the spoils of war.
sian rohahi marhata~from my heart said
sian sarang mi~from your cage
siap, mauliate godang~ready, thank you very much
siapul ae sahithu~soothe my pain
sibahen na jahat~criminal
siboanon sa giot~His innate desire
siboanon sa ni~it's his default
sibuat na hurbe~thief
sibuk dohot tondingki~my flesh and spirit
sibuk ndada ula~meat doesn't sell
sibuk tata sogar~fresh raw meat
sidalian naung leleng~classic reasons
siding hamuna luhut~Move aside all of you
siding jo aba~move aside first ah
siding ma ho~you move aside
sigaretna tuat tohonan~cigarettes are downgraded
sigomgom na pinasangap~respected ruler
sigontam ni banua~horse
sihol ho hamlethu~miss you my boy
sihol ni roha~desire
sihol ni roha~longing
sihol rampak siampudan~miss my youngest
sihol sopola mardomu~miss without meeting
sihol umbagas tuho~miss you deeply
siholhu rampak ina~I miss my mother
siholhu soaram ina~I miss your voice mom
siholna pangke hian~really miss using it
siingoton manggugai tondi~memories disturb the soul
siingoton tingki metmet~memories from childhood
sikkola ambung sahali~school is very easy
sikkola marsogot baoa~school tomorrow son
sikkola para ugamo~religious high school
sikkolana hami torus~we continue to go to school
silas ni roha~happy
silas ni roha~excited
silas ni roha~prosperous
silehon turgas longang~magic advisor
silindaklindak na gok~rich
sillam dohot pane~thunder and lightning
silom dohot kristen~Islam and Christianity
silomlom di robean~cow
silua hu dia~where's my gift?
siluana hirpas alogo~the prize is a fan
simangot simangot ompung~ancestral spirits
simangunsong marga au~simangunsong my clan
simangunsong puna on~simangunsong has this
simardokdak ni nambur~pig
simatua anggi monding~my sister's father-in-law died
simatua hipas hasian~healthy in-laws, dear
simbur angkup mangalean~grows by giving
simbur bagas tuhan~grow in God
simor annon ho~you'll get emotional
simor au jumahana~I got emotional reading it
simor sahali ho~you're so emotional
simor tingkat deua~God level emotions
simpang dua anggi~the intersection of two sisters
sinapang piso tali~gun, knife, rope
singku jambar bagas~inner elbow
sinjata bangso batak~Batak tribal weapons
sinjata mangan tuan~backfire
sinta na tarputik~plucked love
sinta sinta au~my dream
sintahi di son~my love is here
sintahi sauli bulan~my love is as beautiful as the moon
sintahi tarbagi dua~my love is divided into two
sintamu bonar hu~your love is my spirit
sintamu laos punahu~your love is mine
sintong hape baritam~Your news is true
sintong sahali nahinaholongan~that's right sire
sintong saroha hita~That's right, we're all together
sintongna porso mi~Is your lie true?
sinuan tunas ima~just plant that shoot
sioloan dohot holongna~his example and love
sioloan ngolu kristen~exemplary Christian life
sip baba mi~shut your mouth
sipanganon na rade~dish
sipanudu na tilhang~naughty index finger
siparbagaon ni boruboru~mainstay of women
sipargogo na balang~faithful helper
sipata bahen gasa~sometimes it makes you angry,
sipata boi retes~sometimes it can be fragile
sipata totong idaonhu~sometimes I'm surprised to see
sipatudu dalan ende~song guide
sipma, nunga borngin~be quiet, it's late
sipujion ho pargabus~your image is a liar
siram aek mohop~flush with hot water
siram hamu ma~flush you
sirarion jo au~I'll have a meeting first
sirsir pandidion anak~at the child's baptism
sisi ni laut~beach
sisik na marsuga~prickly skin
sisik siulubalang ari~Earth surface
sisilon pathu ganjang~my toenails are long
sisolhot jolma matua~parents' cousin
sisolhot na renta~perfect cousin
sisolhot parompuan umuli~the most beautiful female cousin
sisolhot sian dainang~Mom's cousin
sisolhot timbil lagak~the most handsome cousin
sissin sere mamuhung~circular gold ring
sitaon na porsuk~understand
sitel ngolu labilabi~repeating the life of the worm
sitoha na denggan~good coincidence
sitoha sahali dokhu~What a coincidence I say
situak natonggi ranggiting~honey bee
situak natonggi umuli~best honey
situak ni loba~honey
situtu na jogi~strong determination
siulubalang ari mardosdos~flat earth
slimos au lumbang~, at a glance I was relieved
so babami bangke~shut up your mouth is a corpse
so ho sina~Shut up you Chinese
so ho tois~shut up you bastard
so motor sa~his car broke down
soara pidong martutu~the sound of birds chirping
soara tarbege tongam~the voice sounded loud
soarana buat lambok~his voice is cool
soarana jeges amang~his voice is good sir
soarana na andar~his voice was clear
sobilak hian ho~You're very patent
sobilak loni ho~patent with you
sodap hian ni~that's really delicious
sodap ho mangan~delicious for you to eat
sodap lakku tonggi~delicious, selling well
sogar sahali supingna~his smile is so fresh
sogo loni huhilala~I think I'm fed up
sogo ni roha~hatred
sohot dohot haholonganna~married his lover
sohuboto mara dope~I didn't know it was still dangerous
solok pinsur sahali~very sharp bend
solsol ni roha~regret
solsol ni roha~regret
solu tarhilala mereng~the boat felt like it was shaking
somak somak riar~wild bushes
somal anak rumar~usually an illegitimate child
somal molo songoni~normal then
son dongani modom~come here and sleep with me
son ho sopo~here you shack
son hu lotak~I'll go here
son ma manghombar~come closer here
son ma sabolahu~here beside me
son panutungan dengke~grilled fish here
sonang anture gisi~happiness needs nutrition
sonang jo holi~relax your bones first
sonang sa nangkin~it was safe
sonang sonang haraan~safe safe invitation
sonang tongtong haholonganhu~always happy my beloved
sonangma binsan ngolu~be happy while you live
sonangma rap hu~be happy with me
sonangma sopola angkup~be happy without a partner
sonangma tondi mi~happy is your soul
sonangna bagas roha~happy in my heart,
sondot au monding~until I died
sondot ho sinok~until you fall asleep
sondot ingkon parsirangan~until you have to divorce
sondot jongirna tingki~to the cruelty of time
sondot manutup mata~until you close your eyes
songik loni medan~the language of Medan is rancid
songon au tiruna~like me for example
songon borua babana~like a girl's mouth
songon di tullang~like being stabbed
songon dia do~how
songon dia karejom~how do you work?
songon dia ma~how?
songon dia nimmu~what do you think?
songon horbo annon~like buffalo later
songon reap reap~like a kite
songon sillam mangaroro~like lightning striking
songon tarseat piso~like a knife cut
songoni do musa~like that's what happened
songoni ma daba~that's it
songonna pinoroan asom~sad
songonon do musa~this is how it happened
songonon ma hulingna~this is what it sounds like
songonon parsoalan sa~this is the problem
songti sopola lumba~peerlessly powerful
sopola isi abatabat~without any obstacles
sopola isi maradi~without any pause
sorang anak silinduat~twins were born
sorang dohot batin~inner and outer
sorang tubu mangalo~born to grow up disobedient
sorbop saut guru~suddenly became a teacher.
sori ni ari~suffering
sornasorna ni debata~grace
sornasorna ni debata~gift
sosar iboto parompuan~sister's stall
soso di hadengganon~advice for good
suansuanan bagak bistok~smart beautiful flora
suansuanan bulung holang~castor leaf plant
suansuanan gadong insir~sweet potato plants
suansuanan godang hambolna~Plants have many benefits
suansuanan labang aek~water ferns
suansuanan mansam babi~pig-like flora
suansuanan na lomak~lush plants
suansuanan na lomak~fertile plants
suasana na lamo~cool atmosphere
suba hita ulahi~let's try it again
suba ho alimoshon~try to imagine
suba jou au~try calling me
suba ulahi muse~try repeating again
subama anggo boi~try it if you can
subama ho tuhor~try buying it
subama marroha denggan~try to think well
subang mangande pokokna~never give up basically
suda annon dibalbali~and then he'll be beaten
suda daginghu dibalbali~my body was beaten
suda do arang~Woe to the charcoal wood?
suda luhut dilaplap~it's all eaten up
suda manangko mangga~just stole a mango
suda marsinta modom~After making love, I went to sleep
suda mudarmi annon~your blood will run out later
suda ni mangaso~After that, rest
suda udan lambok~after the cool rain
sude nunga diboan~everything has been brought
suga lobi jempek~spines shorter
suga sa pinsur~its spines are sharp
suhisuhi ni tangan~elbow
suhu hata batak~Batak language expert
suhu itu pakar~This section is temperature
sulim manghuling gogo~the flute sounds loud
suman ho tingki~like you at the time
suman parhobas pos~like a postal officer
sumbaiang jo itohu~Pray first my brother
sumisi sumisi luhut~it's all over, it's all over
sumolsol manang solsol~sorry or remorseful
sumurung haiason tangan~especially hand hygiene
sun amang pandita~ready, pastor
sun angkang baoa~ready bro
sun dare ma~get ready get ready
sun roro parhobas~ready to ambush officers
sun sala anggi~ready to make a mistake sister
sun sala uluan~ready to go wrong commander?
sun tabe dipasahat~ready to send greetings
sun tupa ma~be ready
sundat sohot dohot~canceled marriage with
sunggul naeng hahurangonhi~aware of my shortcomings
sungguli au marsogot~wake me up tomorrow morning
sungguli diri hamu~make yourself aware
sungguli marsogot olo~wake up tomorrow okay?
sungkana au jadina~I feel awkward
sungkana bangkol ila~awkward, reluctant, embarrassed
sungkot ni langka~stop
suping au arga~my smile is expensive
suping au jahana~I smiled reading it
suping marsoring tangis~smile turned to tears
suping na tartutup~closed smile
suping parkarejo pir~hardworking smile
supingma na jagar~smile beautifully
supingmu pandaoni lojahu~Your smile cures my tiredness
supingmu pandaoni rohahi~your smile heals my heart
supingmu ubat lojahu~Your smile cures my tiredness
supingna ndada haberengan~his smile was invisible
surat partadingan ojak~official document
surgo na sihabunian~hidden paradise
suri jambulan mi~comb your hair
suru ibana mandasing~tell him to weigh it
suru jora jo~tell me to repent first
suruan ni raja~headmaster
susa bagas saor~difficult to blend in
susa dabu amangoi~it's hard to fall
susa dapothon sa~it's hard to get it
susa di lea~hard to insult
susa di mangalupahonsa~hard to forget
susa manang sonang~difficult or happy
susa mangaduk sa~it's hard to fix it
susa nunga ro~trouble has come
susuda ho holit~you're so stingy
tabe au itomu~Greetings, I'm your brother
tabe bangso batak~Greetings Batak nation
tabe manogot nasogotan~morning greetings
tabe na dipasahat~greetings conveyed
tabe partukkang poso~Greetings young mechanic
tabe sada ter~greetings one asphalt
tabe tama amang~kind regards sir
tabe tondi ampit~greetings in harmony
tabo amam mora~it's nice that your father is rich
tabo bahenan ho~delicious what you make
tabo dohot basabasa~favor and grace
tabo dohot bosur~delicious and filling
tabo hian modomna~really good sleep
tabo taboan ho~you feel good
tabotabo dohot marmiak~fat and oily
tabotabo jo ma~fat first
tading di parsamean~live in a hostel
tading diharangan longolongo~live in the wilderness
tading etong pungkul~just count the hours
tading hagogoon sa~just the strength
tading manang manontong~stay or remain
tading manapu jabu~just sweep the house
tading siingoton ondeng~just memories
tading tanom gadong~just plant sweet potatoes
tagan au ojak~before I settled down
tagan mangasta jolma~before insulting people
tagan pandita pamuli~before the priest marries
tagan salpu maraek~before it gets wet
tagil hau batakna~cut down the tree of the Batak language
tagion roha hu~I mean bill
tagion so loni~Bills are stuck at times
tahi balga dingoluhu~big plans for my life
tahina bulan jolo~the plan is next month
tahina hurang denggan~the meaning is not good
tahu baba hu~dip my mouth
tahu di martapian~dipper for bathing
tahuluk, gu birong~black nape
tahulukna sihit angkang~The hat is askew, bro
tais biar lonong~far away, afraid of drowning
tais i lumban~far away in the village
tais sian dungdungon~out of reach
tais sian hangoluonhu~far from my life
tak pamberengan simalolonghi~the tone of my eyes
tak timbona tabo~the high notes are nice
tali sian hotang~rattan rope
talu muse ma~I lost again
tama di manjalo~worthy to receive
tamana ondok pusaka~like an heirloom rhythm
tamba bongak donganhu~the better my friend
tamba bongak donganhu~more handsome my friend
tamba hua ingkauna~add vegetable sauce
tambon mi rinsan~Your ass is torn
tambonna jeges sahali~Her ass is very nice
tammat marlapatan nunga~Does that mean you've passed?
tampahan na denggan~good opportunity
tampuk ni pusupusu~favorite
tanda na mamporseahon~convincing evidence
tandi tanding hami~Our ingenious standout
tanding tanding hami~our clever clever
tanga boruboru panangga~dog woman bitch
tanga na isi~the bastard there is
tangan tompu husintak~I spontaneously withdrew my hand
tanggal ondeng ulum~just take your head off
tanggal piga do~what date?
tangging hian gogom~your energy is really strong
tanggo hepenghi jo~look at my money first
tangi la otik~He's a little sensitive
tangi saut baoa~sensitive to being a guy
tangiang au taralusi~my prayers were answered
tangiang manghajongjonghon dosa~prayer of confession
tangiang naumbalga hu~my biggest prayer
tangianghon ma ibana~pray for him
tangihon andung hami~hear our lament
tangihon au anaha~listen to me my son
tangihon au damang~listen to me son
tangihon luhut poda~listen to all advice
tangihon ni hamuna~listen to that you guys
tangihon panangkasion gurum~listen to your teacher's explanation
tangihonma asi hu~listen my darling
tangkas annon diontang~will definitely be invited.
tangkas boi dibolus~definitely passable
tangkas ditangko jolma~someone must have stolen it
tangkas hamsar pardalananna~sure to have a smooth journey
tangkas jamporon pa~must be confused right?
tangkas loguna damo~the song is definitely melodious
tangkas nari bollang~definitely still literate
tano jolma mora~rich people's land
tano lapang pardolokan~mountainous plains
tano na dangardangaron~afternoon
tano ndada lomak~infertile land
tano somak amang~bush land, sir
tano use mudar~homeland
tanoman sina leleng~old chinese cemetery
tantas ondeng jabuna~just tear down the house
tao bontis marsonang~nimble lake having fun
tao ditonga buhit~lake in the middle of the hill
tao na bagak~beautiful lake
taon na ro~thief
tapol tali ni~tie the rope
tar dipahatop balanjona~shopping has sped up a bit
tar eret utokmi~a bit of a shift in your brain
tar porman halakna~He's quite a pious person
tar ro bagak~looks kinda cool
tar saihur dua~rather one or two
tarabuk ingkon mulak~forced to go home
tarabuk mangaranto tu~forced to migrate to
tarabuk marsirang alani~forced to separate because
tarabuk pangsiun tagan~forced to retire before
taralimos diri mi~imagine yourself
tarbali di manisia~contagious to humans
tarbaor bagas parungkilan~drowning in sadness
tarbarita alani habisukon~renowned for wisdom
tarbege jeges soaram~your voice sounds good
tarbege sarupa ibana~sounds like him
tarbereng bagas holongna~seen in his love
tarbereng jogi diruar~looks strong on the outside
tarbereng mira bohi~looks cheerful
tarbereng sian ganana~visible from its shape
tardapot pigapiga pareso~there are several corrections
tardege ihur huting~stepped on the cat's tail
tardungdung au mataniari~I can reach the sun
targasip bagas halipeon~trapped in falsehood
tarhiap angkang hatotong~surprised, brother, surprised
tarhiap au binahenna~I was surprised that he did it
tarhiap au tarhatotong~surprised I was amazed
tarhiap ho annon~you'll be surprised later
tarhiap sanggak totong~surprised surprised surprised
tarhilala ma lam~it's not bad
tarhindat dohot tedak~lifted and opened
tarhira hagaoron manginsir~it seemed like a commotion was spreading
tarhira ho rongkaphu~Looks like you're my soul mate
tarhira hurang tingkos~doesn't seem right
tarhirim dohot hanataan~disappointed with reality
tarhirim dohot parangem~disappointed with your behavior
tarida sarita indonesia~Indonesian historical facts
taringot ama hu~I remember my father
taringot ibana muse~he remembered again
taringot nahinan amonghu~remembering my late father
taringot poda guruhu~I remembered my teacher's teachings
taringot rampak anaha~I remember my son
taringot rap mantan~remembering your ex
tarlambat ai diparhasomal~I'm late getting used to it
tarlambat au manghatahon~I said too late
tarlambat sadia minut~how many minutes late?
tarnata gari mambahensa~it turns out he actually did it
tarnata holan bahenan~turns out it was just artificial
tarnata marbohi dua~turned out to be two-faced
tarnok bahen ho~sleep for you
tarombo tondongmu ido~your family tree
tarpangan mi babi~eaten by pork noodles
tarpangan padan tonggi~fall for sweet promises
tarpangke bahen manuhor~used for snacks
tarpangke bahen panganon~used for food
tarpinjil di tondong~isolated in the family
tarpunjung dohot sagang~secluded and quiet
tarsintak au binahenna~I was shocked by it
tarsongon i hurung~as if in brackets
tarsor sintong goragora~it's a true call
tarsosak marusaha rambon~forced to try to escape
tartangkup do ho~you're caught
tartanom bagas roha~embedded in the heart
tartanom bagas so~buried in silence
tartuhor tudos on~bought like this
taru angkangmi karejo~take your sister to work
taru manuhor balanjo~between shopping
taru pangidoan jo~deliver the order first
taru pasahat dongkon~between say say
taruk muse au~I coughed again
taruk ndada marhohak~cough without phlegm
taruli tarutung tompas~got a windfall
tarullus imbus alogo~blown away by the wind
tastas tu ginjang~penetrate upwards
tatapan aha on~what is this look?
tatapan mata sa~his eyes
tau loni hutingkir~the same time I look
tau sahali dohot~very compatible with
tau sahali hamuna~you guys are very compatible
teal muruk sundol~arrogance, anger, revenge
teal sahali ho~you're so arrogant
tedak ma surgo~heaven is open
tehnologi naung sanggih~technology is advanced
tempo rap bidadari~holiday with angels
tempo rap tarsinta~holiday with your beloved
teni au horbo~I'm a buffalo
teni ho ma~it's you
tes pusuk angur~fragrant shoot tea
tida rupana hamuna~show your form
tigatiga barang tihas~selling used goods
tigatiga ho oto~your sales are stupid
tihas asar pidong~former bird's nest
tihas bongka ni~that's flawed
tihas do ho~you're disabled
tihas mi mansogohon~your character is annoying
tihas risi hu~my rude nature
tihus i holak~enemy in front
tijur dilat alai~spit lick but
tilhang anggo dipandokoni~it's naughty to say so
tiltal dohar pangsiunan~the joy of being retired
timbil pir ulu~most stubborn
timbo daging hu~my height
timbo hian ho~you're tall
timbo mansam aras~as tall as a pole
timbul torus tongtong~keep moving forward always
tinggal manuhor do~just buy it
tingki dibuhuli muse~time is determined again
tingki ditagi lupa~I forgot when I was billed
tingki i pusuk~while at the top
tingki na dibuhuli~specified time
tingki na indil~A moment
tingki na mangabuk~urgent situation
tingki ngolu parpudi~death
tingki pangsiun halado~assembly retirement
tingki resepsi hasohoton~wedding reception time
tingki suman begu~like a ghost
tingki timbil posi~saddest moment
tingkina banda borngin~it's time for dinner
tingkina di marbahudung~it's time to meditate
tingkir galapang rittik~take a peek at the flywheel
tingkir ma pa~look at it
tinompa ibana sadasa~his own creation
tipis imbus mengkel~thin, blow, laugh
tiruan hata saurdot~examples of rhyming words
tiruan sa ho~your example
tiruan tangiang pangondianon~example of intercessory prayer
titi adong ma~titi is
titus oma manuk~titus mother chicken
tiup jo kopi~first drink the coffee
tiur gabe holom~light becomes dark
tiur portibi sira~light of the world of salt
toba sundat mangadangi~Toba failed to wander around
todoan umuli hita~our best choice
togoshon karosi i~straighten the chair
togoson tong sampahi~Put the trash can upright
tohap manang dosa~reward or sin
tohap naung suda~quota has run out
tohom tahuluk, gu~stiff neck
tohona jolma dia~where do you come from
tohona jolma dia~where do you come from?
tohonan bagas toba~dignity in Toba language
tois ho bangke~arrogant you corpse
tois rampak mi~rude to you
tokke na dipasupasu~blessed master
tokke na padot~persistent agent
tokke olo hansur~the city is destroyed
tokke paniroi sosial~social control agent
tokke tudos panangga~bookie like a dog
tokkin alai boho~short but fun
tokkin muse hubuat~I'll pick it up soon
tokkin nai jumpang~see you soon
toktok manang todoan~obligation or choice
toktok na lopok~main obligation
tolbak tano sa~landslide
tolohon binsan boi~make time while you can
tolon au pintor~I swear I'm honest
tolor ho asi~your eggs darling
tolor ho ni~your egg
tolor nunga ro~The eggs have arrived
tolu pulu juni~June thirty
tolu taon seasea~three years in vain
tombis otik gundar~nudge the brush a little
tombis puntar ulu~smashed head
tompa mi malambut~you look beautiful
tona tamuei sabotol~order a bottle of herbal medicine
tonahu sapata marlakku~My message is karma applies
tondi batak hu~my Batak soul
tondi na hodar~demon
tondi tondi tio~clear soul
tondihu saae mangareap~my soul feels like it's floating
tondimi tuhan mandonganihu~Your spirit God is with me
tondingku manginona teal~my soul feels lame
tondong amang mala~benefactor's family
tondong na marsitaonon~grieving family
tondong ndada maradat~non-traditional family
tondong ndada satolop~the family disagrees
tondong pangoli baoa~the groom's family
tondonghu pahehe au~my family is my encouragement
tondonghu surgohu dihasiangan~my family is my heaven on earth.
tondongmu bagak bagak~your family is beautiful beautiful
tondongmu dohot anakmi~your family and your children
tondongna tarasup dibunu~his family was threatened with death
tong leleng masuk~it's still a long time coming
tonga denggan dagingna~is pregnant
tonga orong boritan~was groaning in pain
tongamnai donganhu on~my friend is handsome
tongatonga ni hau~cork
tongdo hami tonggohon~we still pray
tonggi alai mamatehon~sweet but deadly
tonggi dohot assim~sweet and salty
tonggi sahali hatahatam~your words are very sweet
tonggi tonggi peleng~sweet sweet spoiled
tongkar anak on~this kid's fighting
tongor annon i~it'll be busy there
tongor dohot manghundang~solid and alluring
tongos jo sadoka~send alms first
tongos na marguna~send something useful
tongos sada ndada~leave something or not?
tongosan di amangamangmu~entrust it to your husband
tongoshon annon olo~send it later okay?
tongoshon botari on~send it this afternoon
tongoshon buku angkang~send me your book bro
tongtong au holongi~I always love
tongtong di paias~always cleaned
tongtong di pukul~always getting hit
tongtong ditogutogu tuhan~always guided by God
tongtong hamlethu langkup~my boyfriend always cheats on me
tongtong ho marsoara~you always speak up
tongtong isi abat~there are always obstacles
tongtong isi mutmut~there are always disputes
tongtong isi nirohana~always in his heart
tongtong isi pangolat~there are always barriers
tongtong mamorso karejom~always lie about your work
tongtong mangasta jolma~always looking down on people
tongtong maraloalo antus~always disagree
tongtong marroha sadasa~always think for yourself
tongtong marsak roha~always sad
tongtong ndada dibege~always unheard
tongtong saleleng lelengna~last forever
tongtong saut ingoton~always a memory
tontu ondeng saurdot~of course in tune
tonun dohot tapol~weave and tie
topari baba mi~slap your mouth
topari pipi mi~slap your face
topi ni aek~edge of the water
toras bagas haporseaon~mature in faith
toras bagas parulan~mature in action
torsa jolma salomona~tell people whatever they want
torsa rampak tembok~story with the wall
torsa, turiturian buruk~old story
tortor bangso batak~Batak dance
toru sialap ingkau~under the tongue
torus di alus~keep answering
torus di paingot~keep being reminded
torus di umma~keep kissing
torus habotoan hian~keep getting caught
torus ho alus~keep answering
torus hulingna beha~then how does it sound?
torus ma manaburhon~keep on sprinkling
torus mangangkupimu andorang~stay with you all the way
torus naung dijou~have you been called?
torus pinalolo pangurupi~continue to be a helper
torus tiur unang~frankly don't
torus uluhon au~keep leading me
torusma hita karejo~let's continue working
torusma marsi mangaramoti~keep looking after each other
torusma niula mi~continue your work
torusma songonon aleale~keep going like this friend
torusma tabo ido~go on. that's delicious
torusson parjuangan ho~continue your struggle
tota i kalas~orderly in class
tota tombom sun~Fistfight ready
totong hian au~I'm really surprised
tu dia lahona~where it goes
tu dompak jakarta~towards Jakarta
tu ginjang dipatudu~upwards is shown
tu hau sauit~to the palm tree
tu inganan paranginanginan~to a resting place
tu kantor tahina~to the office I mean
tu muatan i~to that load
tu pulo hapas~to Kapok Island
tu ruang lung~into space
tu sang sitompa~to the creator
tu simpang opat~to the intersection
tu son angkang~come here brother
tu son ma~come here
tu susuda hepeng~running out of money
tu tolping bariba~to the opposite cliff
tuak sa tonggi~his roomie is sweet
tuak sada solup~one liter of palm wine
tuan di horbo~master on buffalo
tuanima molo songoni~thank goodness if that's the case
tubu kambang anak~child growth and development
tudiape au lao~wherever I go
tudos harangan longolongo~like a wilderness
tudos jolma nautnaut~like a dazed person
tudos labilabi tano~like earthworms
tudos lombu pelean~like a sacrificial cow
tudos mamisat karotas~like crumpling paper
tudos mohopna kopi~like hot coffee
tudos naung pistar~as if already skilled
tudos ndada parsikkola~like uneducated
tudos ndada pinasangap~like being disrespected
tudos ndang sungguli~like unconscious
tudos ompung boru~like grandma
tudos parau balga~like a big boat
tudos parruderude tarbarita~like famous artists
tudos sege bulu~like sifting bamboo
tudos somal binoto~as is commonly known
tudos tajomna ranap~like a sharp gaze
tudos turgasna jo~like his previous advice
tuhan ampuni dosahu~God forgive my sins
tuhan asal parhorasan~God is the source of salvation
tuhan au sabam~God, I surrender
tuhan dongani hami~God be with us
tuhan jesus manggomgomi~Lord Jesus reigns
tuhan jesus manjama~Lord Jesus touched
tuhan lean pangondian~God give protection
tuhan ma hagogoonhi~God is my strength
tuhan manatahon habalgaonna~God declares his greatness
tuhan mangalean pangapulon~God gives comfort
tuhan mangaramoti ngolum~God preserves your life
tuhan na bongak~great god
tuhan na mangamoti~God protects
tuhan na martembak~God wills it
tuhan na paganuphon~God is sufficient
tuhan na pature~God is in control
tuhan naung patupa~God has provided
tuhan paganuphon mi~God suffices you
tuhan pala tigor~God is very fair
tuhan pamalum au~God restore me
tuhan pamalum sasudena~God restore everything
tuhan panogu dalanku~God guides my path
tuhan uluhon anakmi~God lead your child
tuhas tuhas torus~keep accusing
tuhor hopal tongtang~buy a fighter plane
tuhor ma tohap~buy a quota
tuhor martabak ma~buy martabak
tuhor sendor mas~buy dawet, bro
tuhor sinjata api~buy a firearm
tuhorhon au halung~buy me a necklace
tuhorhon au sada~buy me something
tuhormu pala arga~Your dowry is very expensive
tuhu ma anggulimanna~what he said was serious
tuhu saotik tokke~Seriously, boss
tuk mamborothon sasahalak~tired of tying someone up
tuk manangihon au~tired of listening to me
tuk olo mangaso~I'm tired, take a break
tuk sa pardagingon~you're tired
tukkar baju sikkola~exchange school clothes
tukkar hepeng angkang~exchange money bro
tukkar hepeng imbaru~exchange new money
tukkar rampak hepeng~exchange for money
tuktuk pintu olo~knock on the door yeah
tulang parago padan~uncle broke his promise
tulanghu marsoara jeges~my uncle has a good voice
tulen ra gege~the original is about to crumble
tuli jo tokkin~stop by for a moment
tuli la tokkin~stop by for a moment
tuli son amang~come here sir
tullang ruang igung~prick your nostrils
tulus sabalga parjolo~round it to the size of a penhead
tumagon au balga~I'd better be big
tumagon ho so~you'd better be quiet
tumaon boritan on~endure this pain
tumbuk tu bangso~fist to the nation
tumpak dohot songkongan~help and support
tumpak godang dingkan~help from many parties
tumpak inganan parsatongkinan~funeral assistance
tumpal mauliate godang~Mauliate Godang's reply
tunas sahat martua~shoot up to luck
tunas saut martua~Buds are so lucky
tundal ho pa~You're upside down, aren't you?
tunduk boha do~submit how
tunduk maradophon roha~obedient to the heart
tung bagakna supinganmu~your smile is really beautiful
tung diruar panagaman~really unexpected
tung jeges lung~really beautiful nature
tung jeges panatapan~really beautiful view
tung jongirna dirim~you are really cruel
tung ndang huagam~I really didn't expect it
tungga ni doli~husband
tunggal pareak boruboru~the male mates with the female
tunggul ganda tua~the main flower of luck
tungkot raja raja~king's scepter
tupa hepengna godang~maybe a lot of money
tupa pargontion parsiajaran~ready to change lessons
tuptup na sintong~correct decision
turgas sadihari saedo~when the task is completed
turituri ni apostel~the apostles story
turiturian ansimun mas~the tale of cucumber mas
turiturian tagan modom~bedtime story
turiturian tembok andung~the story of the wailing wall
turpuk ari on~today's verse
tutu donganmu martihas~it's true that your friend has a problem
tutu saroha hita~That's right, we're all together
tutu tutu uas~really thirsty
tutung diri ho~burn yourself
tutung jagung ondol~grilled corn is great
tutur tota ulaon~event rules
ua di pining~please pinang
ua diinum tesna~please drink the tea
ua handit pat~please put your feet up
ua marhatai ondeng~please just talk
ua patandahon dirim~introduce yourself please
uang pokok gunung~the base of the dolok
uap na hushus~blessing
uarar indonesia hu~my glorious Indonesia
uarna bajuna rara~the color of his clothes is red
uarna dengke ni~the color of the fish
uba dohot pature~change and fix
ubat ngalian mohop~fever medicine
ubat sihol asi~longing medicine darling
udan lam tangging~the rain is getting stronger
udan ngali damor~soft cold rain
udan ni asi~rain is a blessing
udan nunga ro~the rain has come
udur na anture~neat rows
udur on digunahon~this line is used
udut lembur karejo~continue working overtime
udut unjun hita~Let's continue our exam
uduti das borngin~continue until evening
ugamona ndada andar~his religion is unclear
ugari aha do~what's normal?
ugasan bagas gombar~objects in the picture
ugasan sihabiaran hamamate~sacred object of death
uhiran tandi batak~typical Batak carvings
uhum di hadameon~regulations for security
uji jasa baik~swab test
ujungna dibalos musem~finally answered too
ujungna tarboan susa~finally got carried away
ujungna tempo musem~finally a holiday too
ulahi be sondot~repeat each until
ulahonma na umuli~do the best
ulaon ansiat guru~job as a teacher
ulaon hasohoton raja~king's wedding feast
ulaon imbaru hangoluon~new chapter of life
ulaon jolma sahuta~village party
ulaon na maruap~smelly event
ulaon paduahon olo~second half yes
ulaon pangambe ulos~ulos waving event
ulaon parolopolopon pesta~banquet celebration event
ulaonna naung sae~the event is over
ulaula garut tano~earth rake tool
ulaula panduda napuran~betel pounding tool
ulaula pargomgom dirina~personal protective equipment
ulaula tinggala hauma~paddy plow
ulaula ulaula tonun~loom
ulina ina hami~our beautiful mother
ulina langit botari~beautiful evening sky
ulina nanaeng saripehu~my sweet future wife
ulok mamuhung tuat~the snake coils down
ulok marulu lima~five-headed snake
ulosna uarna aha~what color is the ulos?
ulu hamu lamot~your head is soft
ulu hamu lunjung~your head is oval
ulu hansit ulu~headache
ulu ho budingkil~you have a lump on your head
ulu ho lonong~your head is sinking
ulu ho nabung~your head is bald
ulu songon bagudung~head like a mouse
ulubalang na marporang~heroes who fight
ulum songon bagudung~your head is like a mouse
um timbo para~higher higher
umma dahop dadap~kiss hug touch
umma sajoma anggo~just kiss it
umpamana dohot padalanhon~for example by doing
umpamana harajaon sadalan~for example, the kingdom is in line
umpasa hamsar bagas~proverbs are fluent in
umur lam marganda~age increases
umur lam moru~age is decreasing
unang ago rohana~don't trouble his heart
unang alit bolit~don't be complicated
unang annon barutu~don't get lumps later
unang ansi jolma~don't deceive people
unang apala mamodai~don't advise so much
unang asi hondur~don't give slack
unang asi lambas~don't give it loose
unang baen gusar~don't make a gathering
unang biar hamagoan~don't be afraid of losing
unang bilolangon ho~don't be nervous
unang bojok marsikkola~Don't be confused about school
unang bojok tiopan~don't confuse the handle
unang bonsa torus~don't stay gloomy
unang boto do~don't know
unang buat bulung~don't make bamboo
unang buat losok~don't be pessimistic
unang das hinos~don't get tired
unang das malua~don't let it go
unang di antoi~don't interfere
unang di diarin~don't let it go
unang di guit~do not touch
unang di mahilolong~don't delay
unang di pasuda~don't spend it
unang di pikkirhon~Do not think about it
unang di sahiti~don't get hurt
unang di songgak~don't snap
unang di tida~don't show it
unang diapas ibana~don't insult him
unang dibahen parange~don't act like it
unang dibereng tingkir~don't look look
unang dibuat jo~don't take it yet
unang diharangan torus~Don't stay in the forest
unang dipaberengbereng sasadaon~don't leave it alone
unang dipamate aekna~don't turn off the water
unang dipamate olo~don't turn it off, okay?
unang diparhatutu hamuna~don't believe it, you guys
unang dipikkiran angkang~Don't think about it bro
unang dok marpilitan~don't say you're guilty
unang dophon ambung~don't take it lightly
unang elat ho~don't be jealous
unang gabe tata~don't make it raw
unang gabusi hami~don't lie to us
unang gabusma ho~don't lie
unang ganggu roham~don't disturb your heart
unang gantung holongi~don't hang darling
unang gaor loni~don't bother
unang godang gilok~don't have lots of caterpillars
unang godang kombur~don't brag too much
unang godang tangan~don't have too many hands
unang gunahon simor~don't use emotions
unang hail simorhu~don't provoke my emotions
unang hamu rarat~don't share it
unang hansit tambonna~no, it hurts his ass
unang hea mandilat~never lick
unang hea mangalupahon~never forget
unang hea marjehe~never betray.
unang ho ampin~don't defend it
unang ho martoruk~don't be humble
unang ho marungutungut~don't grumble
unang ho tardokhon~don't mention it
unang holan mamodai~don't just advise
unang hona dando~don't get fined
unang hu martoruk~Don't be humble
unang i halado~do not serve
unang iburuan ma~don't be jealous
unang ida tupudi~do not look back
unang intopi tondimi~do not quench your spirit
unang inum alkohol~don't drink alcohol
unang isi abat~don't have any problems
unang jengeng sahali~don't be so scary
unang jugul loni~don't be stubborn
unang leas hatulusonhu~Don't underestimate my sincerity
unang leas sintahi~Don't be trivial my love
unang leleng mulakna~don't be late coming home
unang lensem au~don't insult me
unang lomo mangadangi~don't like wandering around
unang lomo mangasungi~don't like to slander
unang lomos hamuna~don't worry you guys
unang losok angkang~don't be lazy bro
unang lupa dipamate~don't forget to turn it off
unang lupa disurat~don't forget to write
unang lupa mangalualu~don't forget to report
unang lupa pudun~don't forget to dress up
unang lupa silua~don't forget the gifts
unang lupa siluana~don't forget the gift
unang lupa sirarion~don't forget the meeting
unang lupa tuli~don't forget to stop by
unang maenhon rohahi~don't play with my feelings
unang malu ho~don't be shy
unang mamartida ho~don't argue with you
unang mambahen guntur~don't make trouble
unang mambunu binatang~do not kill animals
unang manalai hasintongon~do not violate the truth
unang mandandan parbogason~don't get into a relationship
unang mandungohon raja~don't wake the king
unang mangalo idokkon~don't fight what you say
unang mangalo kodrat~don't go against nature
unang mangalo olo~don't be disobedient, okay?
unang mangalo uluan~don't go against the leader
unang mangalului sidalian~don't look for excuses
unang mangalupahon tuhan~don't forget God
unang mangande ma~don't give up la
unang mangasangi au~don't challenge me
unang manggerdek olo~don't seduce okay?
unang manindanghon ni~don't stand it
unang maniru ho~don't cheat you
unang manjua ho~don't dodge you
unang manuhor motor~don't buy a car
unang marbogas rosu~don't have sex
unang mardandi tes~don't simmer the tea
unang marhatai rarat~don't ramble
unang marpahu diensenghon~don't be too proud
unang marpananginangian panangga~don't listen to dogs
unang marpandoit au~don't be sarcastic to me
unang marpangidoan diahu~don't beg me
unang marpilitan olo~don't be guilty
unang marsomba ganaganaan~do not worship idols
unang marsurasura roa~don't be prejudiced
unang martaru ho~don't gamble
unang marutokutok guting~don't think dirty
unang meam hau~don't play with wood
unang meam maos~don't just play
unang meret roha~don't change your heart
unang mongkus olo~don't be greedy okay?
unang mura solhot~don't get along easily
unang na manggadis~don't sell
unang nasai argana~don't pay that much
unang natanata loni~don't be tacky
unang olo gamang~don't be afraid
unang paandar olo~don't make it clear
unang pabalga masala~don't make the problem bigger
unang panotnoti langit~don't look at the sky
unang pardulihon au~do not mind me
unang paributhu soarami~don't make your voice loud
unang pauneunehon bonana~just don't give up
unang pinalolo habalian~don't use it as an excuse
unang pisang hamu~not your banana
unang pola antar~no need to pretend
unang pola diangkat~no need to lift it
unang pollung, bada~don't argue
unang pulut roham~don't get caught in the sap of your heart
unang pusa au~don't torture me
unang ra dibuat~don't want to take it
unang ressok hamuna~don't make a fuss, you guys
unang rimas maos~don't be angry all the time
unang risi ma~don't be rude
unang salomo rohami~don't do whatever you like
unang sanggak totong~don't be surprised
unang saritai jolma~don't tell people
unang sasahali tuan~never, sir
unang satolop torus~don't agree all the time
unang sipak sipak~don't kick kick
unang sipanggaron muse~don't act anymore
unang sobilak diruar~Don't hang out outside
unang songgak au~don't yell at me
unang songik ho~don't be rancid
unang sorbop olo~don't be sudden okay?
unang tarboan ateate~don't get carried away
unang tarhiap partondionna~don't shock his spirit
unang tenga ho~don't be stupid
unang tinodo todo~don't point
unang tois ngolum~Don't be proud of your life
unang tombis au~don't touch me
unang topoti au~don't see me
unang tumbang sogot~don't fall tomorrow
unang tundal olo~don't turn it upside down
unang ula gabus~don't lie
unang ummaon ojak~don't kiss standing
undang banding banding~try separately
undang pajolo gogo~first invite energy
unduk unduk ulu~nod nod your head
une dohot sulusulu~according to the instructions
une pinarsinta au~according to my wishes
unga halangan olo~it's already a problem
ungkil anak baoa~boy's suffering
ungkil daga ungkil~suffering oh suffering
ungkil sahalak baoa~a man's suffering
ungutungut minik mommonon~babbled a snotty boy
unsok au ni~hit me on that
unsok na dia~which one?
unungan karejo beha~how to apply for a job
upaupa manang ali~gift or reward
upaupa sian ina~a gift from mother
uratni nai bongkihon~fish
ursa torus marroha~the deer continued to think
urup patalak janjela~please open the window
urup patalak pintu~please open the door
urupi anggihi diparalangalangan~help my sister overseas
urupi apul au~please cheer me
urupi asi tiruna~please give an example
urupi di pahatop~please hurry up
urupi dialusi tokke~please answer boss
urupi dibuha pintuna~please open the door
urupi dietong olo~please count it
urupi dijaha muse~please read again
urupi ditambahon hatahatana~please add the words
urupi endehon ende~please sing a song
urupi i anju~please understand
urupi jo tuhorhon~please buy it first
urupi pamalum ibana~help him recover
urupi papos au~please convince me
urupi pasangap hami~please respect us
urupi sabotol sopi~a bottle of wine please.
urupi tapol eme~help tie rice
urupi tuhorhon au~please buy me
urupi unang rampa~please don't be nosy
urupima au amang~help me sir
urupima iboto hu~help my brother
urupima itomu dison~help your brother here
urupima on gogot~please, this is hard.
use bonos hu~I'm sorry
use hurum angkang~spilled my brother's cheek
use i jolo~spilled out front
usehon aek hadameon~spill the water of peace
utokna porlu di~his brain needs to be stimulated
utokutok hamu duguldugul~your brain is knee-deep
utokutok ho silbak~your brain is cracked
utokutok mi ijo~your brain is green
abak dakdanak asi roha~oh poor boy
abak ho jotjot ida~gosh you often see
abak ndada iburu au~gosh I'm not jealous
abak ni bahasa batak~gosh, that's Batak language
abak oto loni ho~gosh, you're stupid
abak oto loni ho~gosh, you're stupid
abak pasipasi sampulu ribu~oh my gosh there's ten thousand left
abak pidom nangkok kareta~what a shame taking the train
abara mangabara pasidunghon bonosan~work together to solve your worries
abaram na hinan botang~your once strong shoulders
abatabat di patandahon diri~challenge to introduce yourself
abatabat haru on tuhan~What a trial, God
abatabat on boi hubolus~I can overcome this challenge
adaran aek tio marbalau~expanse of clear blue water
adaran hauma na ijo~expanse of green rice fields
adaran ijo harangan harangan~green expanse of forest forest
adong do hepengmu di~you have money for
adong do hipas saripe~Is your family healthy?
adong do ido dijabum~have it in your house
adong do motor ho~do you have a vehicle?
adong do na tondan~is there anything wrong?
adong dope boruboru asing~there are other women
adong dope hepeng mi~do you still have money?
adong dope inang inangna~there is still his wife
adong dope jagalbabi amang~There's still pork, sir
adong dope langa gantungan~there are still empty hangers
adong dope martabak i~the martabak is still there
adong dope na tata~there are still raw ones
adong dope nomor kembar~there are still twin numbers
adong dope panganon on~there is still this food
adong dope pidong mi~your bird is still there
adong dope pongkot mi~You still have capital
adong dope sada muse~there's still one more
adong dope sada ni~there's still that one
adong dope tuak on~there is still this palm wine
adong dope ulaon son~there's still work here
adong dopena utokutok mi~you still have a brain
adong jolma lagak ni~there's that handsome guy
adong ma barita nauli~is the gospel
adong ma hasomalon imbaru~is the new habit
adong ma marmula sian~is starting from
adong pe tortor adatna~as for the traditional dance
adong pigapiga panganon tandi~there are several special foods
adong sampulu opat pandungdungion~there are fourteen achievements
ae martopak sambola pardompahan~a feeling of being on the side of the forehead
ae na tartanom ngorngor~a feeling that is slowly buried
ae ra tanggal utokhu~I feel like my brain is going to rip out
aek igit mi godang~you have a lot of semen
aek mata hu madabu~my tears fell
aek pinalolo tanda hangoluon~Water is used as a symbol of life
aek tijurna durus torus~his saliva continued to melt
aek tio hona dengkena~the clear water catches the fish
aga sahali isi pomparan~Very proud to have descendants
agan au ditutung mataniari~even though I was burned by the sun
agan husuba di padalanhonsa~even though I try to do it
agan ndang tongtong sihol~even though you don't still miss it
agan ndang tongtong sinta~even if it's not still love
aganan botang alai marbarurbarur~although handsome but wrinkled
aganan holan sangkambona tobu~even if it's just a stick of sugar cane
aganan leleng hot hupaima~even though it's been a long time, I'm still waiting
aganan saotik namun pasupasu~even if it's a little as long as it's a blessing
agia galumbang manggugai rohahi~even though the waves disturb my heart
agia hami dilean naniomo~even though we were given an advantage
agia ho susa didungdung~even though you are hard to reach
agia ingkon di auhon~although it must be admitted
agia jeges pandapot jolma~although people think it's good
agia naung pinasingot jesus~even though Jesus reminded me
agia ni mangahon hajahaton~even if it brings evil
agia ni naung borngin~even though it was late
aha aha sa nimmu~what do you say?
aha ardoanna rampak au~what does it have to do with me?
aha ardoanna rampak ho~what's the deal with you?
aha ardoanna rampak mi~what's the matter with you?
aha artina puna hamlet~what's the point of having a girlfriend?
aha asi marnipi au~what darling dreamed of me
aha bahasa batak marsipature~what is the Batak language preserving?
aha barangna nunga ro~Has the item arrived?
aha boasa ma on~why is this?
aha dengke di jabum~what are the fish in your house?
aha dilompa di jabu~what is cooked at home?
aha do ama marhatai~what are you talking about?
aha do antongan ni~what do you mean by that?
aha dorunna pandok ou~what's so hard about saying yes?
aha goar haganjangon mi~what does your name stand for?
aha goar inganan karejom~what is the name of your place of work
aha guna hamu martaru~what's the point of gambling?
aha guna marbohi bagak~what's the point of having a pretty face?
aha guna puna hamlet~what's the point of having a boyfriend?
aha habar hamu do~how are you?
aha habar iboto bagak~How are you beautiful sister?
aha habar itohu persi~How are you, my Batak version?
aha habar panghasoloman bal~How are you football fans?
aha habar tois olo~How are you, arrogant huh?
aha habarmu balu poso~How are you young widow?
aha hamu ra diburai~do you want to be cursed?
aha hasiputon mi nuaeng~What is your activity now?
aha hata batakna haua~What is the Batak language for Eve?
aha ho hebo hita~are you bothering us?
aha ho jolma salaksak~are you bald?
aha ho pandok mosok~did you say burnt?
aha ingkon hu dongani~what should I make friends with?
aha lapatan alame bagas~what does dodol mean in
aha lapatan hata ditatap~What does the word stared mean?
aha lompan di jabum~what are the side dishes at your house?
aha lompanna hata ibana~what are the side dishes he said?
aha ma gogo hu~what can I do?
aha ma lapatanna on~what does this mean?
aha magona sarupa hita~what do we have to lose?
aha mangan halomoon hamu~what is your favorite meal?
aha mangarajumi au angkang~what ponders me brother
aha masalana dohot mi~what's the problem with you?
aha muse ho jempek~What's more, you're short
aha muse sungkunsungkun ho~what other questions do you have?
aha na au pasonang~What do I enjoy?
aha na au pikkirhon~what I am thinking
aha na boi dipadalan~what can be done
aha na hamu tolopi~what do you agree with
aha na hamuna hatahon~what are you talking about
aha na hamuna nonang~what are you talking about
aha na ho hata~what do you say
aha na ho hatahon~what are you talking about
aha na ho hatai~what are you talking about
aha na ho undukhon~what do you say yes to?
aha na hu binahen~what do I do
aha na i hatai~what is being said
aha na ingkon diribak~what to tear?
aha na ingkon ditutung~what to burn
aha na ra dibapbap~what do you want to beat?
aha na ra dipeakhon~what do you want to put?
aha na ra diunung~what do you want to propose?
aha na rata i~what's the green one?
aha na tinailihon mi~what are you looking at?
aha nari di surabaia~are you still in Surabaya?
aha ni tailihon ende~what are song lyrics?
aha nunga pasondothon pangurdotna~what has stopped its movement
aha on naung mintop~Is this stuck?
aha on? basa biru~is this in front of some kind of jungle palm
aha ondeng arsak mi~whatever your complaint is.
aha ondeng asal naniomo~what are the sources of income
aha parsoalan hamuna dua~What's the problem with you two?
aha ra mangan siarum~do you want to eat spinach?
aha ra tanggo au~do you want to see me?
aha sa hapur napuran~What Batak language is whiting?
aha sajo na hurang~whatever is missing
aha salahu rampak mi~what did I do wrong with you?
aha sambal ari on~what's the chili sauce today?
aha tondongmu manghorasi hita~Does your family approve of us?
aha tortor bangso batak~what is the dance of the Batak tribe?
ahado na dipahatop bere~What is the nephew speeding up?
ahu sinta jamu haholongan~I hope herbal medicine lover
ai au di tuhas~why am I being accused?
ai boi ho ungkap~how come you can open it?
ai gari disuru so~why were you told to keep quiet?
ai ho ido dipandokoni~why do you say that?
ai isi ibana diontang~why was he invited?
ai molo di simalungun~o... if in Simalungun
ai sagang songon tanoman~why is it quiet?? like a grave
aithon hinan ido surta~get me some silk first
ajal ndada mangaloas hita~fate won't let us
ajar au sondot sangap~educate me to be successful
ajari au meam sulim~teach me to play the flute
ala hita naeng ojak~because we will stand
ala hita porlu rap~that we need to be together
ala ho ma tuhan~because you are God
ala ni bou babamu~because of your bad breath
ala ni bunsiton mangan~because he was full of food
ala ni sian huta~because of the village
ala parbue ditanda bonana~because the fruit is known by the tree
alai aha ma gogo~but whatever
alai anggo hita marrongkap~but if we are matched
alai asi na mangajari~but it's a shame to teach
alai ate di diapas~but not to be insulted
alai au hot martuani~but I'm still grateful
alai au ndada margait~even though I'm not being funny
alai binsan naung dibaritahon~but it's already been reported
alai bosur naeng siaginon~but full of suffering
alai bunga rara ni~but that red rose
alai dang adong tempo~but there is no tempo
alai dang mansai ransar~but not very smoothly
alai das tingki tohonan~but until term of office
alai dohot paho na~but with morals
alai dungkon heu mardalan~but after getting tired of walking,
alai gabe hansit au~but it makes me sick
alai halus do panggoit~but is the poker wrong?
alai hamu do mahing~but you are ignorant
alai hita ingkon benget~but we have to be patient
alai hita sada marga~but we are of the same clan
alai ho hansit ulu~but you have a headache
alai ho jama hepengna~but you keep the money
alai hot alat rohana~but stay alert
alai iba do so~but the account is silent
alai ibana sadasa padalanhon~but he himself circulated it
alai jolma na mangarihonmu~but the person who owns you
alai jolma parpudi dingolumu~but the last person in your life
alai luhut ni gabus~but it's all lies
alai martugan tu oroan~but turned to fiancé
alai naeng binsar muse~but it will come up again
alai nari tarmali tondi~but still traumatized
alai ndada isi artina~but there is no benefit
alai ndada isi hamubaon~but there is no change
alai ndada ra mokmok~but don't want to get fat
alai ndada tarbereng doras~but it doesn't look heavy
alai ndang dope dibalos~but not yet replied
alai ndang dope ombasna~even though it's not the season yet
alai ndang dope sohot~but not yet married
alai oli opat bolas~but four marriages are allowed
alai parbiar sa ho~even though you're scared
alai pinggolmu mambege au~but your ears hear me
alai pote lobi tabo~even though petai is better
alai saburjuna ho ihut~but you'd better come along
alai sang sude manghilala~but everyone feels it
alai tarhira ibana lupa~but it seems he forgot
alai tarnono nangkin au~but I fell asleep earlier
alai unang muningan tarombo~but don't ask about genealogy
alamat au tokke tarutung~My address is the durian dealer
alana au holong ho~that I love you
alana sabuk dope ninna~because of the loincloth again, he said
alana ulaonna nunga borngin~because the event was late
alana ulina tarbolus bolat~because her beauty is beyond limits
alang alus lam balga~the responsibility gets bigger
alang roha ndada taradu~worried about not being caught up
alani adong dope tampahan~because there is still a chance
alani alogo tangging sahali~because the wind was very strong
alani au asi ho~because I love you
alani au ndang ambul~because I can't
alani au tong punam~because I am still yours
alani binsan nari ambung~because while it's still easy
alani dohar lua tangging~because it can run fast
alani hamletmu ma on~because it's your boyfriend
alani hepeng pardonganon ganggang~because friendship money is tenuous
alani ho hea maninggalhon~because you never left
alani ho naung marripe~because you are already married
alani hu pala manghaholongimu~because I love you very much
alani ibana haulion parompuan~because she is a beauty woman
alani lungkas manongos tona~because it's free to send messages
alani lungun tongtong sorop~because sadness always comes
alani mohopna portibi on~because the world is hot
alani nasida musu hian~because they are really anti
alani nasida ndada marugamo~because they are not religious
alani nasida ndada olo~because they disobey
alani nuaeng tu ahu~because now for me
alani panolsolion rodo parpudi~because regret comes later
alani sintamu mandapothon au~because of your love for me
alani sude naung lao~because everyone is gone
alani tingki ngolu parpudi~because of death
alapi ma au hatop~pick me up quickly
alapi ma tu on~pick me up here
alat rohana martimbanghon pidom~beware of harm
ale panghulingi goar mi~hi what's your name?
ale portibi hoga ma~Hey, happy world
ale ro tuson gusar~Hey, let's get together
ale tontu hansur lala~yes, of course it was devastated
aleale sian tingki metmet~best friend from childhood
aleale solu pudi tingki~end of time canoe friend
ali andar dohot tongor~short, clear and concise
alimos hata sibolis naburju~the meaning of the word good devil
aling na naboritan bagas~Deeply painful innuendo
alit au sahalak panglatu~offended I'm single
allam boi saut pangapoion~insults can be motivation
allang ma annon hansit~eat. you'll get sick
allang ma dodak ni~eat the bran
allang ma jo au~I'll eat first
allang ma na godang~eat a lot
allang ma pidongmu ni~eat your bird
allangi do buntak ido~eat the mud
allangi do rap ho~eat with you
allangi do sasudena ido~eat it all
allangi ho te ido~eat that shit
allangi ma gadong ni~eat that sweet potato
alo hata sian bao~the opposite of besan
aluhon ondeng das sombu~just stir until satisfied
alus jo sungkunsungkun on~answer this question first
alusan isi bagas tondimi~the answer is in your spirit
ama batak dainang huta~Batak father, Banjar mother
ama ho meam pungkul~Your father plays marbles
ama ho meam reap~Your father is flying kites
ama ho pardengke olo~Your father is a fisherman, right?
ama ibana meam pungkul~His father played marbles
ama rittik ama jorbut~Crazy father, sadistic father
ama sisolhot na denggan~good biological father
ama tongtong manangianghon mi~I always pray for you
amam ongkos sibabi jalang~Your father hired a prostitute
amang josua muse aha~Mr Joshua, what are you up to?
amang mu suman babi~Your father looks like a pig
amang tokke suping mamak~The boss smiled broadly
amangamang au bongak sahali~my husband is very handsome
amangamang au muse abat~My husband is having problems
amangamang au unang maradu~my husband, don't fight over it
amangamang dohot naniolina pa~husband and wife right
amangamang ho sadihari ngail~When does your husband go fishing?
amangamang mu nunga ro?~Has your husband come?
amangamanghu karejo mulakna leleng~My husband takes a long time to come home from work
amanma tangkas maderder ni~It's safe, it's definitely liquid
ambal i tano harang~crashed on coral land
amban au dijou ina~why am I called mother
amban hamuna ingkon marsirang~why do you have to divorce
amban ho hurang antus~why don't you understand?
amban ho jonoki au~why are you approaching me
amban ho mangonjar au~why are you pushing me
amban ho tarbereng rittik~why do you look crazy
amban ho tihas leas~why are you so indifferent?
amban mirdong tuhu marsiajar~Why are you dizzy? Seriously study
amban ndada isi goarhu~why isn't my name there?
amban nuaeng ho daldal~why are you gloomy now
ambon tobok tobok tanga~Ambon language is innocent, innocent, bastard
ambung mananda gogot lupa~easy to recognize, hard to forget
ambung sahali ho mangkatai~you speak so easily
amonghu au anggi anggihi~my father, me, my younger siblings
amonghu naung aning haroroanmu~My father has been waiting for your arrival
ampa sa dirihu on~I'm wise
ampin das hot ripe~defend until marriage
amporik darapati anduhur lote~sparrows, doves, turtle doves, quail,
ampuni ma dosa hu~forgive my sins
an mangan martuduk ungkap~there eat eat open
an son habobongot hita~here and there we come in
anaha i gomgom simatua~my child is controlled by my in-laws
anaha so sikkola muse~my child is on strike from school again
anak anak hatana guting~the children talk dirty
anak baea amangamanghu hansit~my son is sick
anak baea baea parila~shy boy
anak baea siboan marga~son carrying the surname
anak batak arga sinamotna~Batak children have expensive dowries
anak birong didia ho~black child where are you
anak birong radot babami~black boy watch your mouth
anak borua hansit hansar~girl sick with diarrhea
anak damang malo maretong~My son is good at counting
anak dolidoli timbil balga~the biggest boy
anak hamlethu ra modom~my boy wants to sleep
anak hinomit di hangar~people are starving
anak hu batisan tondihu~my son is my soul mate
anak hu lanang bagas~my child is deep
anak lali dabu martata~eaglet fell laughing,
anak lumamglumamg naso marina~orphans
anak meme timbil dorsun~the dirtiest mother's child
anak metmet pangalaho jungkat~little children misbehave
anak metmet tompuk haduan~little boy pat later
anak mi rumpak oma~Your child has fallen, Mom
anak mira bohi hoga~happy child
anak na marlingkit pir~tough-skinned child
anak namarbaju hatop mulak~virgin child come home quickly
anak on hobas markarejo~This kid works hard
anak parjolo baea amangamanghu~my first son
anak parompuan asi amangna~daughter loves her father
anak parompuanna ama poso~the father's young daughter
anak sampulu bulan martubi~ten month old child competes
anak siampudan parompuan hu~my youngest daughter
anak sian angkangna ama~father's older brother's son
anak tu onom parila~the sixth child is shy
anakmi gale di tabutabu~your child is weak in the womb
anakmi marsuru au so~your son told me to be quiet
anakmi muse lungun damang~Your child is sad, father
anakna lagak amangna roa~the son is handsome, the father is ugly
anang aha alimos sa~I don't know what that means
anang di ise mangalualu~I don't know who to complain to
anang ise na hole~I don't know who is rowing
anang ise na sala~who knows whose fault it is
anang ma ise rongkaphu~I don't know who my soul mate is
andar naung luhut parsoalan~all the problems are clear
andar nibagas nipi hu~present in my dream
ande hamu ma tuk~give up you're tired
andehon luhut tu au~leave everything to me
andigan kado tu hu~when is the gift for me?
andigan tu pasar malam~when to go to the night market
andora marbada igung mardomu~chests bump, noses meet
andorang au manalipon nantuari~when I called yesterday
andorang di suhisuhi pa~it's in the corner right
andorang ido husungkun amban~when he asked why
andorang isi na huhasiholi~I'm missing something
andorang lahangmu mullop mulak~when your selfishness reappears
andorang lao tuhor martabak~I'm going to buy martabak
andorang losok ibana manombo~when he is lazy he relapses
andorang mangaehon sihol ondeng~I'm just feeling homesick
andorang mangatim timus timbaho~enjoying tobacco smoke
andorang mangendat tali hailna~when pulling the fishing line
andorang mardame dohot haadongon~is coming to terms with the situation
andorang marjuang di taruli~are struggling to get
andorang ndada isi hatiuron~there is no clarity
andorang panurirang di tubuhon~when the prophet was born
andorang sahit au manombo~when my illness recurred
andorang sinta margobar gabus~when love is covered in lies
andorang tarhona sihar mataniari~when exposed to sunlight
andos diroha tailihon loguna~the lyrics of the song hit home
anduhur hona pudun mangolu~the turtledove got caught in a snare
andurian ni tung hatop~the hedgehog was really fast
anggi dohot angkang angkangna~younger brothers and sisters
anggi marmeam di emper~little brother playing on the terrace
anggi na denggan rohana~kind hearted sister
anggi nian marhite pane~I want via express
anggi parompuan sian sisingamangaraja~the younger sister of Sisingamangaraja
anggi sisolhot parompuan hasian~beloved little sister
anggiat abahan mi hot~I hope your culture remains
anggiat abak dohot marrindang~May you be prosperous and have offspring
anggiat anak mi hasea~I hope your child is successful
anggiat ari arim boho~hope your days are fun
anggiat arim tongtong sonang~I hope your day is always happy
anggiat asam hu jeges~I hope my grades are good
anggiat au boi mangeahi~I hope I can catch up
anggiat au malua rimang~I hope I get to see it
anggiat boi torus marhambang~hopefully it can continue to grow
anggiat busbus dohar anak~I hope to have children soon
anggiat di lean habengeton~hopefully you will be given fortitude
anggiat di tulushon parsaulianna~I hope your luck will go smoothly
anggiat dipasupasu tua tongtong~May you always be blessed
anggiat ditulushon tuhan olo~I hope God will grant it
anggiat hamsar boniaga sa~I hope the business goes smoothly
anggiat hamsar das rapot~I hope it goes smoothly until the trial
anggiat hasohotonna das haholomon~I hope the marriage lasts forever
anggiat hasohotonna tulus leleng~I hope the marriage lasts long
anggiat hatop mandapothon pomparan~I hope you get offspring soon
anggiat hatuaon tongtong mangangkupimu~May blessings always be with you
anggiat hipas torus angkanghu~I hope you stay healthy my brother
anggiat hita lam kompak~I hope we become more united
anggiat hita luhut dipagogo~May we all be strengthened
anggiat hita tongtong renta~May we always be united
anggiat hitado sangap olo~I hope we are successful
anggiat ho pabulus dalanhu~I hope you make my path easier
anggiat hojot malum au~I hope I get well soon
anggiat hojot mamburju baoahu~I hope my man gets better soon
anggiat hojot mamburju luhut~I hope everything gets better soon
anggiat i patimbul derajat~hopefully it will be raised in rank
anggiat jahoba manghorasi hita~may Allah bless us
anggiat lam dipajonok rongkapmi~I hope your soul mate will get closer
anggiat lojam gabe tua~May your tiredness be a blessing
anggiat luhut rohana siat~May all your wishes come true
anggiat luhut ulaon banje~I hope all the work goes well
anggiat marboras eme ni~I hope the rice will bear fruit
anggiat marsogot lojam malum~I hope your tiredness will heal tomorrow
anggiat nari isi parkarejoanna~Hopefully there's still work
anggiat natum lamu ganjang~I hope your penis gets longer
anggiat ndada sala mamillit~I hope you don't make the wrong choice
anggiat on tuptup umuli~I hope this is the best decision
anggiat ondeng hatop haruarna~hopefully it comes out quickly
anggiat parsaulianna hamsar tongtong~May your sustenance always be smooth
anggiat patu angkup au~I hope you conquer me
anggiat pidongmu lamu ganjang~I hope your bird gets longer
anggiat sahitna manombo muse~I hope the disease recurs again
anggiat sai tibu salpu~hopefully it will pass quickly
anggiat sasude ardoan dipalese~I hope all matters are resolved
anggiat sasude halomoanmu siat~May all your wishes come true
anggiat sasudena hatop mamburju~I hope everything gets better soon
anggiat suping tonggi mi~I hope your smile is sweet
anggiat tahina tongtong dipasupasu~May his plans always be blessed
anggiat tangiang dainang siat~I hope mom's prayers are answered
anggiat tohonan nangkok hatop~I hope you get promoted quickly
anggiat tohonanna nangkok hatop~I hope he gets promoted quickly
anggiat tombus halomoanhu tuhan~I hope God fulfills my wish
anggiat tombus sasude halomoanmu~May all your wishes come true
anggiat tongtong isi dalanna~I hope there is always a way
anggiat torus gabe aleale~I hope you continue to be friends
anggiat tuhan busbus mangabara~May God forgive you soon
anggiat tuhan mangalehon baragas~May God give permission
anggiat tuhan manghorasi hita~may god bless us
anggiat tuhan patulushon tangiang~May God answer prayers
anggiat tujolona lam sada~Hopefully in the future it will be even more solid
anggiat tulus dohot denggan~hope it goes well
anggiat ulaon parbogason hami~hopefully our engagement event
anggim aha naung modom~Is your sister asleep?
anggis torus motor on~slow down the speed of this car
anggo adong do utokmi~if you have a brain
anggo asi partahanhon au~if you love, keep me
anggo au asi hasianna~if I love you
anggo au manghaholongi ho~if I love you
anggo au mirdong maos~if I get dizzy
anggo au na manghatahon~if I say so
anggo aut sugarina logo~if it's dry
anggo biar unang dijama~If you're afraid, don't hold it
anggo boi adong halongangan~if there could be a miracle
anggo boi anak borua~if possible girls
anggo boi andar mas~if you can come, sir
anggo boi au uba~if possible I can change it
anggo boi baritai da~if you can let me know
anggo boi orui jugulna~if possible, reduce the stubbornness
anggo boi orui jugulna~if you can be less naughty
anggo boi unang tuhor~if you can, don't buy it
anggo di huta ngalian~if it's cold in the village
anggo di sahiti muse~if you get hurt again
anggo dilehon ra ma~if you give it, you will
anggo dipaberengbereng lam gabe~if you let it get worse
anggo dipaboa unang mangalo~If you are told, don't fight
anggo godang turgas karejohonma~If you have a lot of work to do, do it
anggo hatop au lao~If you hurry I'll go
anggo hita manaba jati~if we cut down teak
anggo hita ndang marsipaidaan~if we fight
anggo ho bias pandokma~if you're bored, say so
anggo holong manaili pardagingon~if love looks physical
anggo hutur tanggal pidongna~if it shakes it takes the bird off
anggo ibana imbaru haluang~if he's a new bat
anggo ido busbus pinarade~If so, prepare immediately
anggo isi masala didokhon~If there's a problem, talk about it
anggo isi na mamartida~if anyone disputes it
anggo lae jolma dia~what person's brother-in-law?
anggo leleng au sundati~If it takes too long I'll cancel
anggo loja modom ma~if you're tired, go to sleep
anggo malungun ingkon tombus~If you want it you have to achieve it
anggo mangan dengkena aha~what kind of fish do you eat?
anggo manghatai unang alangalang~When you speak, don't do it half-heartedly
anggo marjumpang dohot ahu~if you meet me
anggo marrongkap tangkas dipajonok~If you are soul mate, you will definitely be brought closer
anggo naung isi pamasuhon~if there is already income
anggo naung sangap bursik~If you're successful, spit it out
anggo naung tammat sikkola~if you have finished school
anggo ndada di balos~if you don't reply
anggo ndada olo lintun~if not, leave
anggo ngolu naeng ramot~if you want to live safely
anggo pos tangkas siat~if you are sure it will come true
anggo ra torsa pisik~if you want to tell a secret
anggo ringkot ingkon dipajolo~If it's important it must come first
anggo sala pareso olo~If I'm wrong, correct me
anggo tata tohonanna sahalak~if the position is one person
anggo tingki naung mamburju~if the situation has improved
angguliman dodot marsitaonon batak~Condolences in Batak language
angguliman mi tudos sormin~Your words are like a mirror
angka hata minik mommon~snotty kid talk
angka hata ndada natingkos~poor quality talk
angka hata pilit torus~the conversation keeps getting sidetracked
angkal pamarenta di mangontapi~government efforts to prevent
angkang asal bibir olo~Brother, you're from the sidelines, right?
angkang au dolidoli parila~My brother is a shy guy
angkang dalan tujabu mi~I'm walking to your house
angkang dijou angkup au~Brother was called by me
angkang hatutubu taon sadia~what year were you born?
angkang ho ido garapus~your brother is careless
angkang ianakhon ringkot sahali~Bani's sister is very funny
angkang manaeki angkang ido~the older brother climbed on the older brother
angkang mangarut tangan ina~Brother massaged mother's hand
angkang maranggi dongan hebo~brothers, rowdy friends
angkang maranggi marsi manghaholongi~brothers love each other
angkang mi bebe hian~Your brother is really asleep
angkang musem masihol asi~I miss you too, darling
angkang ndada mangarahon au~My brother didn't invite me
angkang ndada medangedang muse~Brother doesn't wander anymore
angkang paiashon bilut nantuari~Brother cleaned the room yesterday
angkang sa na sali~his older brother borrowed it
angkang sadia arga sa~bro, how much does it cost?
angkang sian dia asalna~bro, where does he come from?
angkanghi giot manongoshon tona~My sister wants to leave a message
angkanghi na denggan roha~my kind sister
angkangmi ro tu jabu~your sister comes home
angkangna manupe ra ihut~Her sister knitted and wanted to come along
angkiningan au sikkola di~Previously I studied at
angkiningan ugamo au silom~Previously my religion was Islam
angkup ditulushon parsaulianna sa~and his sustenance will be smoothed out
angkup na pala tau~a very compatible couple
angkup ni silang kristus~besides the cross of Christ
angkup umur na ganjang~as well as long life
angur ma suba umma~it smells good, try smelling it
aning sopola isi hapateon~waiting without certainty
anju naeng tongtong tarhatahon~sorry will always be said
annon anggo di tanoman~later at the cemetery
annon au dipalao simatua~I'll be kicked out by my in-laws later
annon au ditangko jolma~Then someone will steal me
annon au endat pidongmu~I'll suck your bird later
annon birong sisik mi~your skin will turn black
annon borngin tu adaran~tonight to the field
annon botari lua ra~want to go for a run this afternoon?
annon botari tuhor baoang~I'll buy onions this afternoon
annon dibuat begu ho~your ghost will be taken away
annon dibuat jolma ho~Your humans will take it later
annon digadis lobi laba~later sell it for a better profit
annon disuba ina ni~Mum will try it later
annon dongani au olo~I'll be friends with you later
annon hamuna tanggo punahu~Later you will see mine
annon hansit hami maras~If you get sick, we'll worry
annon hita dipollat pollat~later we will be stepped on
annon hita sombu pasagat~later we will be satisfied
annon ho i sulik~then you'll be kidnapped
annon ho ndada bosur~then you won't be full
annon hu alapi dijabum~I'll pick you up at your house later
annon hu lulu hahuranganna~I'll look for the flaws later
annon hu pandok inangmi~I'll tell your mother later
annon hupastap babami ni~I'll slap your mouth later
annon huponggolhon isangisang mi~I'll break your jaw later
annon hurum au mapultak~later my cheeks burst
annon isi na marhatahata~later someone will complain
annon isi tingki angkir~I'll have free time later
annon isi tingkina asi~there will be time, darling
annon ma hu torsahon~I'll tell you later
annon mamorso ondeng karejom~Then you'll just lie about your work
annon motorhu musem hulean~I'll give you my car later
annon muse hita marhatai~we'll chat later
annon naeng ro tingkina~the time will come
annon nasogotan au asi~I'll give it to you in the morning
annon nasogotan au bagihon~I'll give it to you in the morning
annon naung mardandi ibana~he'll sulk later
annon saut dolidoli matua~I'll be an old virgin later
annon saut peol ninna~it will become crooked, he said
annon sungguli au modom~I'll wake up later
annon tangkas boto margana~Later you will definitely know his surname
annon tingki au ara~I'll invite you next time
ansiat hatoban manang parhobas~as a servant or servant
ansiat mula manompahon hadameon~as a start to creating peace
ansiat sada na hodar~as something unclean
ansiat sapasang amangamang pardijabu~as a husband and wife
ansiat ulaula ampin diri~as a means of self-defense
anti hian ma hubereng~This tree has sour leaves and is used as an additional seasoning for fish dishes, I've seen before
anture abara bahen mangunsande~need a shoulder to lean on
anture haolan musem guitan~need hugs and touches
anture parhobason na masak~requires thorough preparation
anture tingki di punjung~need time to be alone
antus au rampak panghilalaanmu~I understand your feelings
apala musem dohot ugamona~so does his religion
api na diombus alogo~fire blown by the wind
apus andora muningan roha~rub your chest and ask your heart
ara au manaripari pulo~take me across the island
ara itomu na asing~invite your other sister
aran panggadisan ari on~decreased sales today
ardang sihol dohot lapatanna~longing poems and their meanings
ardo ibana dohot donganna~about him and his friends
ardo jo hasian mi~take care of your beloved first
ardoanna rampak au aha~what's the matter with me?
ardona borua ho bagak~because your girl is beautiful
arga diri na nalahang~selfish pride
arga hiap alogo sadia~how much does the fan cost?
ari andorang ndada denggan~the weather is not good
ari ari mangapuli roha~the day cheers me up
ari habot ndang marhederheder~the weather is cloudy and not slimy
ari hatop sahali marsoring~the days change so quickly
ari jumahat tagi au~call me on Friday
ari na lobi tarsumurung~a more special day
ari on ari punahu~today is mine
ari on bagas sarita~this day in history
ari on horong hami~today our group
ari on logo olo~It's sunny today, isn't it?
ari on lupa dibaritahon~forgot to report today
ari on marsogot apusi~Today. Tomorrow. wipe
ari on nibagas sarita~this day in history
ari rebo au rapot~Wednesday, I have court
ari sa logo ndada~the weather is sunny, isn't it?
ari senen ibana pakansi~Monday is he off?
ari senen marsogot pedan~next Monday, friends
arian mohopan borngin ngalian~hot days and cold nights
aropan hu di ngolu~my hope to live
arsak aha sangga on~What are your current complaints?
arsakna aha sangga on~what's the complaint now?
arsean loni ari on~it's hot today
arti habengeton lapang hatuaon~the meaning of long patience in old age
arti nunga mangan ho~meaning you've eaten
asa adong hodok saotik~so there's a little sweat
asa aha anak borua~what hope girl
asa asa mangiran hasea~so that the hunt is successful
asa au na padimposhon~I'll tidy it up
asa au tama ngomngom~so that I can be worthy before you
asa au ungkap bajum~let me take off your clothes
asa bagak dibereng jolma~so that people look beautiful
asa binga ndada lohot~so that germs don't stick
asa boi au punguon~so I can save
asa boi disuba jo~so you can try it first
asa boi himpu bahen~so we can get together
asa boi marbahasa batak~to be able to speak Batak language
asa boi saut sioloan~so that you can be a role model
asa boi suba jo~so you can try it first
asa buruk ugasan sadasa~let it be your own
asa ditatap sintuhu ho~Let me see your seriousness
asa dohar ponggolon arga~so you can get a discount
asa hamu talipon sadasa~let you call yourself
asa hamu uhai sadasa~let you contact yourself
asa hatop mardongan saripe~to get married quickly
asa hatop mora rea~to get rich quickly
asa hatop rarat ontangan~so that you can quickly distribute invitations
asa hita gunom ibana~let us drown him
asa hita ingkon mangarindanghon~then we have to prove it
asa ho naeng umboto~then you will know
asa hu goari i~let me name it on
asa hutiop tangan ho~so I can hold your hand
asa ibana gabe siparjehe~so that he becomes a traitor
asa idaonhu bintang marlinang~let me see the sparkling stars
asa imana dok haganupan~let him tell you everything
asa lam mangasi mi~to love you more
asa laos radoti buea~so you can also keep crocodiles
asa lobi denggan taba~then it's better to cut it
asa lobi mangasi mi~to love you more
asa mangan rampak annon~let's eat together later
asa mangantusi tingki on~to understand this situation
asa mangarti jolma jumahana~so that people understand how to read it
asa mata hu daisdais~let me brush my eyes
asa mate dipunsu horis~let me die at the end of the keris
asa ndada maraekaek loni~so it doesn't get messy
asa ndada simor biangna~so the dog doesn't get emotional
asa punguhon na godang~so collect lots
asa radot hata nimmu~so watch your words
asa rante pambalian targotap~so that the chain of transmission is broken
asa rante pambalian targotap~so that the chain of transmission is broken
asa raterate mi mago~let your confusion disappear
asa sa sian mula~so from the start
asa sa unang sipanggaron~so don't act
asa saut jolma kota~to be a city person
asa sonang hita do~to keep us safe
asa susa alai doho~let it be difficult but honorable
asa tamba antus au~so I can understand better
asa tarpasiding sian pirus~to avoid viruses
asa tarrujak tondina pedan~let your soul be pierced, friend
asa tio tontuhon todoan~so you can make a clear choice
asa tombus na diparsinta~so that you achieve what you want
asa tombus pinarsinta mi~so that your wish can be achieved
asa torus marulos ho~so that you continue to support you
asa tuhan na jujung~let God be sovereign
asa tuhan na mangalus~Let God answer
asa unang hita lilu~so that we don't go astray
asa unang humordit jadi~so you don't regret it later.
asa unang marpahu palelenghu~so don't take too long
asal das di pusuk~as long as you reach the top
asal dia huta mi~where is your village from?
asal lam bagak do~so it's even more beautiful
asal ma tondongna sonang~as long as the family is happy
asal ringkot denggan karejona~As long as it's important, it's good work
asal sian dia lae~where do you come from?
asal songonon ma nga~as long as it's like this
asal unang mapisar bola~just don't be divided
asi angur sahali ho~darling you smell so good
asi asi hasianna au~darling darling my darling
asi au ra diunung~darling, I want to propose
asi au ra sali~darling, I want to borrow it
asi bereng ma simalolonghi~darling look into my eyes
asi boi di pasaut~darling, it can be done
asi bunga asa lomuk~give me flowers so it's tame
asi das marbontar obukhu~I love it until my hair turns white
asi dia pardompahan sa~Honey, where's his forehead?
asi hasianmi bagihu sudung~your love for me is special
asi ho porlu hapateon~darling, you need reassurance
asi ho satulus rohahi~love you with all my heart
asi ido mangarihon parbogason~love is having a relationship
asi itomu di au~give your brother to me
asi jo hata panjaloon~give me a greeting first
asi jo poda mi~give me your advice first
asi loas au marisap~darling, can I smoke?
asi manjarga balang mi~darling wants your loyalty
asi ndada mangahon hapogoson~love does not bring poverty
asi parsiajaran na sintong~teach the right lesson
asi persi bahasa batak~Dear Batak language version
asi roha ida bohina~sorry to see his face
asi roha pangido pusupusu~give me a heart, ask for a heart
asi tata ho i~love it raw
asi tuhan marangkup ho~God's grace be with you
asing hauma asing sihapor~another field another grasshopper
ate di manorui paniroi~not to go to the supervisor
ate di pandungdungion omo~not on achieving results
ate holan tudostudos ondeng~no,,, just a comparison
ate lomos alai biar~not doubtful but afraid
ate melaoak alai margait~not joking but being funny
ate ni hae huting~that's not a cat's thigh
ate pumpe mi au~I'm not your doll
ate rambas tape kareta~not tripe from a car
ate rimas alai tarhirim~not angry but disappointed
ate rimas alai tarhirim~not angry but disappointed
ate sa isi hamubaon~it's not like there's any change
ate tolon manang padan~not an oath or promise
ate tonggi alai paet~not sweet but bitter
ate tortor na ni~not that dance
ate tuhan alai panurirang~not a god but a prophet
ateate imbaru sadia minggu~How many weeks do you feel?
ateate loni di saritai~feelings are shared
atimi be tingki paraloan~enjoy every moment of the match
atimi ma hapuloan mi~enjoy your solitude
atimi ngalina aek timbung~enjoy the cold waterfall
atup abatabat ganti marsoring~face obstacles one after another
aturma dengganna tu ho~just set it to what's good for you
au adong ma kedanmu~I am your friend
au adong ma parmonang~I am a winner
au aga di margahu~I'm proud of my clan
au anak lobu bistok~I'm a smart boy
au andorang ndada repot~I'm not busy
au andorang ndang marhepeng~I'm broke
au andorang tenggen joring~I'm drunk
au anture ho leas~I need it, you don't care
au anture pedan dingoluhu~I need friends in my life
au anture tingki punjung~I need time alone
au asalna sian jakarta~I come from Jakarta
au asi aleale hamlethu~I love my girlfriend's best friend
au asi hamlet kedanhu~I love my best friend's girlfriend
au asi ho baoahu~I love you my man
au asi ho parsaulian~I love you wisdom
au ate bere mi~I'm not your nephew
au ate haholonganna muse~I'm not his girlfriend anymore
au ate jolma patoluhon~I'm not a third person
au ate jolma patoluhon~I'm not a third person
au bagak alai tipu~I'm beautiful but deceptive
au bagihon tuho nangkin~I gave it to you earlier
au baragas tarlambat olo~I'm late, okay?
au baru sae marsiajar~I just finished studying
au biar habornginon mulakna~I'm afraid I'll come home late
au biar ho malal~I'm afraid you'll be uncomfortable
au bias baoa ni~I hate that guy
au boi mamohul rohami~I can hold your heart
au boi manghobat muse~I can hug again
au boi saotik saotik~I can do a little bit
au bojok dohot leakmu~I'm confused by your behavior
au bojok ida angkang~I'm confused looking at you bro
au bolas jama sipareon~I can hold my ears
au bonosan di hamuna~I grieve for you
au dada antus lapatanna~I don't understand the meaning
au dalan tujabu mi~I'm going to your house
au das lungun jahana~I was sad reading that
au di ginjang ugamo~I'm above religion
au di umbang antaran~I'm in Lampung
au digana pala gale~I was created very weak
au dimuruki muse pa~I was scolded again, right?
au dion mandongani mi~I'm here to support you
au dison giot pasahathon~I'm here to convey
au dohot sasude hahurangonhi~me and all my shortcomings
au dokhon na sabonarna~I'm telling the truth
au elekelek hamaolhon parjuanganhu~I ask you to respect my struggle
au giot didongani ho~I want to accompany you
au giot mangahap sonang~I want to feel relaxed
au giot mangalimbe hamuna~I want to tell you
au giot mangaririt dirim~I want to propose to you
au giot mangengkol au~I want to cancel me.
au giot mangongkos motor~I want to rent a car.
au giot manimpuli sasudena~I want to end everything
au giot maniop tanganmu~I want to hold your hand
au giot maradong dilambungmu~I want to be near you
au giot markato saotik~I want to tell you a little story
au giot marsikkola muse~I want to go to school again
au giot marutang hepeng~I want to owe money
au giot pigapiga siarum~I want some spinach.
au giot radoti panangga~I want to keep a dog
au giot sahali namnam~I'd love to taste it
au giot umma ho~I want to kiss you
au godang hahuranganna holong~I have many shortcomings, dear
au gotil sipareon ho~I'll pinch your ears
au hahomion rap ho~I studied with you
au hansurhon ngolu ho~I ruined your life
au hapala horong sada~I am the leader of group one
au hapian rampak ho~I salute you.
au hasea manguba dirihu~I succeeded in changing myself
au hasea patinda dirihu~I succeeded in changing myself
au hea diharat ranggiting~I've been bitten by a wasp
au hea padalanhon hasalaan~I've made mistakes
au hira mohop rohana~I think his heart is hot
au hira partaonan haleon~I think it's lean season
au hoji manggotil hurummu~I want to pinch your cheeks
au hoji marbogas rosu~I want to have sex
au holan boruboru bulus~I'm just a simple woman
au holan giot punjung~I just want to be alone
au holan habalian mi~I'm just your outlet
au holan jumahana ondeng~I just read it
au holan jumahana ondeng~I just read it
au holan ra marhata~I just want to say
au holan saut habalian~I'm just running away
au holan tarhurim tampahan~I just hope for a chance
au holanma pangisi ombasmu~I'm just filling your time
au holong ho holonghu~I love you my love
au holong ho tulus~I love you sincerely
au huduru dohot dangol~I came out sad
au ida bohi ulimu~I see your beautiful face
au ihut lungun mambegesa~I'm sorry to hear that
au ihut marpananginangian ondeng~I'll just follow along
au ihut pariburhon ondeng~I'm just joining in the fun
au ila gokhonna sundat~I'm embarrassed the invitation was cancelled
au indonesia jaua pastina~I'm Indonesian, West Java
au ingot haholongan au~I remember my lover
au isap pirapira mi~I'll suck your balls
au isi di nipim~I'm in your dreams
au jalo laos salahu~I accept it, it was my fault
au jambar sian lung~I am part of the universe
au jo ndada tarbarita~I wasn't famous before
au jolma muara nuaeng~I'm an estuary person now
au jolma na mangapian~I'm a jealous person
au jolma tombis balerong~I'm from Tanjung Balai
au lambang sopola ho~I'm empty without you
au lao manaruhon ama~I went to send my father
au lao manuhor tolor~I want to buy eggs
au laos godang hagaleon~I do have many weaknesses
au loja giot mundur~I'm tired of wanting to go back
au loja giot pauneunehon~I'm tired of wanting to give up
au lomo dalanmu manghaholongihu~I like the way you love me
au lomo loni gondang~I like drum times
au lomo losung hurummu~I like your dimples
au lomo marlangka pilit~I like prostitution
au lomo panatapan lung~I like natural views
au lomo rampak supingna~I like his smile
au lomo sahali gondang~I really like drums
au lomo sondang botari~I like evening light
au lomo suping manismu~I like your sweet smile
au lonap pa solsol~I'm full of regret
au lotak ho annon~I'll slap you later
au lotak ulu ho~I'll knock on your head
au lotak ulu mi~I'll pat your head
au lotak ulu mi~I'll hit your head
au lupa mameakhon sa~I forgot to put it
au lupa mangarur hunsi~I forgot to put the key
au ma na sala~I was the one who was wrong
au ma topik tingki~I am a fragment of time
au magigi jolma ansi~I hate hypocrites
au male ra banda~I'm hungry for the grave
au malo marbahasa batak~I am fluent in Batak language
au malungun di mussat~I want to move
au mamahe baju rara~I'm wearing a red shirt
au mamorluhon ho holong~I need you darling
au mampuna dua pat~I have two legs
au mampuna sada olle~I have one talent
au managam padanmi asi~I'm waiting for your promise darling
au manangianghon luhut haburjuonmi~I wish you all the best
au manangko solop hapit~I stole flip flops
au mandege pat hambiranghu~I stepped on my left foot
au mangagam bagas roha~I thought to myself
au mangalongangi ate manghaholongi~I admire, not love
au mangarade i an~I'm on standby there
au mangaraphon haroroan ho~I look forward to your arrival
au mangarut pardijabu hu~I massage my wife
au manggonti goar hu~I changed my name
au manghaholongimu sopola bolat~I love you infinitely
au manghasiholi ho jabir~I miss you chatty
au manghasiholi parpunguan on~I miss this togetherness
au mangkatai sarupa ranggiting~I talked to the wasp
au manjarga balang mi~I want your loyalty
au manompahon bahasa naimbaru~I created the newest language
au marasal sian bilut~I come from the room
au mardalan tu gareja~I walked to church
au mardongan dohot ho~I am friends with you
au marjea di jakarta~I'm having problems in Jakarta
au markarejo ansiat parhauma~I work as a farmer
au marpogo ngolu sasadaon~I survive alone
au marsiajar bahasa batak~You're learning Batak language
au marsiajar sian amanghu~I learned from my father
au martandang nunga borngin~I stopped by late at night
au maruhom di jabu~I stay at home
au mas bibit hajegeson~I'm good at wisdom
au masihol giot mangkaolho~I miss wanting to hug you Batak
au mida haulion lung~I see the beauty of nature
au mida ho ni~I saw you
au modom hinan dada~I'll sleep first, okay?
au mulak di porang~I'm back for the war
au munik ho torus~I keep thinking about you
au munik ibana torus~I keep thinking about him
au muse di jambi~I'm in Jambi
au muse luluan biangku~I'm looking for my dog
au muse ndang marhepeng~I'm broke
au musem lomo manggombar~I also like drawing
au musem lomona ho~I like you too
au musem mudar batak~I also have Batak blood
au musem ndada ambul~I can't either
au musem ra diantusi~I also want to be understood
au musem satahi ido~I also agree that way
au na dongani ho~I'm accompanying you
au na loja medangedang~I'm tired of wandering
au na mengadap tembok~I'm facing the wall
au na nampuna anggi~I have a sister
au naeng hamagoan sintaki~I'm the one who lost sympathy
au naeng hu topot~I'll apply
au naeng mandamosi ngolum~I will accompany your life
au naeng manggohi sa~I will fulfill it
au naeng modom hian~I'll sleep first
au naeng pangido hepengna~I will ask for the money
au naeng pintor tongos~I will send it immediately
au naeng tongtong marningot~I will always remember
au nangkok lante pitu~I went up to the seventh floor
au nangkok lante sia~I went up to the ninth floor
au nari dang pos~I'm still not sure
au nari malungun ho~I still miss you
au nari ponggol marsiajar~I'm still in the learning stage
au nari ra bollang~I still want to be literate
au nari sirarion pardomuan~I'm still in meetings
au naung bagebage ina~I've finished, mother
au naung matua ardona~I'm old
au naung salpu tarhirim~I'm already disappointed
au naung targasip padan~I've been stuck on a promise,
au ndada bistok manggerdek~I'm not good at flirting
au ndada boto hasianmi~I don't know your favorite
au ndada boto jabum~I don't know your house
au ndada boto sidalianna~I don't know the reason
au ndada di tomu~am I not welcomed?
au ndada hea diparhambol~I was never appreciated
au ndada i tilli~I wasn't ignored
au ndada impol arta~I'm not tempted by wealth
au ndada lupa haburjuonmi~I have not forgotten your kindness
au ndada mangahap menak~I don't feel comfortable
au ndada mangarti hatana~I do not know the language
au ndada manggabusi ho~I didn't lie to you
au ndada margolle asi~I'm helpless darling
au ndada marpahu malo~I'm not very fluent
au ndada puna juo~I don't have sperm
au ndada ra marbagi~I don't want to share
au ndada ringkot dingolumu~I'm not important in your life
au ndada taratara mangan~I don't have an appetite
au ndada tolap mambegesa~I can't bear to hear it
au ndang boi dipahabis~I can't be defeated
au ndang boto antongan~I don't know what you mean
au ndang dope mutu~I'm not willing yet
au ndang dope ris~I haven't got it yet
au ndang gaor jolma~I don't mess with people
au ndang marhutik mambege~I couldn't help hearing
au ngail di binanga~I fish in the river
au ni jolma pistar~I'm a smart person
au ni sasintongna ila~I'm actually embarrassed
au nian rampak ibana~I want to be with him
au nuaeng kalas opat~I'm in fourth grade now
au nuaeng naung malum~I am now healed
au nunga tobat be~I've repented
au ojak manggonti gabe~I officially changed to
au on sasintongna biar~I'm actually scared
au on tahan balbal~I'm resilient
au ondeng na marpanganju~I just gave in
au pa denggan ulan~I'm kind
au pa pala pistar~I'm very smart
au pa tongtong pongkot~I've always had capital
au pabali pikkiran ni~I pushed the thought away
au paburbanghon mangarti sasintongna~I pretend to understand actually
au padimposhon inganan modom~I make the bed
au pahompu na mangalo~I'm a disobedient grandson
au paiashon bilut jo~I cleaned the room first
au paima haroroanmu holong~I'm waiting for your arrival darling
au paima i simpang~I'm waiting at the intersection
au paima ma ho~I'll wait for you
au paima soara sere~I'm waiting for the golden sound
au pajumpanghon asa mardenggan~I brought them together to make up
au pala anture hepengmu~I really need your money
au pala anture ni~I really need that
au pala manghaholongimu hasian~I love you so much darling
au pala marsak nuaeng~I'm very bored now
au panggeno anak jolma~I destroy other people's children
au pangingani jabu mi~I live in your house
au pangke hatahu olo~I use my language
au pangke hatahu ou~I use my language yes
au pansar ho dohot~I spray you with
au pansar ho pangke~I'll spray you on it
au paolooloi ra hamu~I will follow your wishes
au parhasomal marsihohot tubaturan~I'm used to being disciplined
au parjolo ma lahona~I'll go first
au parjolo tu tigatiga~I'll go to sales first
au patulus ho rampakna~I'll let you be with him
au pe marnampuna sonang~I also have the right to be happy
au pe na lehe~I was wrong too
au pikkir nunga ro~I think it's coming....
au podomi ina ho~I slept with your mother
au porsea adong dope~I believe it still exists
au porsea sintamu bontor~I believe your love is sincere
au pos dohot hamu~I'm sure of you
au pukul bona pinggolmu~I hit the base of your ear
au puna anak baju~I have a shirt
au puna andora balga~I have big breasts
au puna olle tartanom~I have hidden talents
au puna pidong balga~I have a big bird
au puna poti pitolot~I have a pencil case
au puna sabiji batahi~I have a whip.
au ra didahop muse~I want to be hugged again
au ra halung ho~I want your necklace
au ra ho alo~I want you to fight
au ra karejoi angkula~I want to exercise
au ra manapu holong~I want to sweep away love
au ra manganangkoki dolok~I want to climb a mountain
au ra mangendat hamu~I want to suck you
au ra manghatindanghon olap~I want to testify about
au ra manunsi kaen~I want to wash the cloth
au ra muta muse~I want to vomit again
au ra pajumpang ibana~I want to meet him
au ra pamate ho~I want to kill you
au ra podomi ho~I want to sleep with you
au ra saut bontis~I want to be nimble
au ra tanggo dali~I want to see milk
au ra tona mangan~I want to order food
au ra tuhor bonang~I want to buy yarn
au ra tupudi hinan~I want to go back first
au ra ungkap orom~I want to break my fast
au radoti bagas roha~I keep it in my heart
au rap halado mangargahon~I am with the assembly offering
au repot marsurasura mi~I'm busy imagining you
au rimang panghataion hamuna~I listened to your conversation
au sadasa dison sagang~I'm alone here in silence
au sajo jolma batak~I'm just a Batak person
au saok tolor asi~I fried eggs, darling
au satahi dohot ho~I agree with you
au satolop alai lomos~I agree but doubt it
au saut jorbut panangga~I'm so scared of dogs
au seang hamu partonggol~I love you ensign
au sihol dahopanmu damang~I miss your hugs dad
au sihol didahop mi~I miss your hug
au sihol haolan ina~I miss mom's hugs
au sihol ho iboto~I miss you sister
au sihol parlakkuon mi~I miss your attitude
au sikkola di balga~I go to school in Tambun
au sita asi sali~I'm confiscating my loan
au so bagas hasandirionhu~I am silent in my solitude
au sobu bonar ompung~I invoke the spirit of the ancestors
au sonang maradong dilambungmu~I'm happy to be near you
au sorang di surabaia~I was born in Surabaya
au suda dionjar nasida~I've been pushed by them
au suhusuhu sian parsamean~I am the representative of the hostel
au sumolsol ginjang pangalahohu~I regret my behavior
au sun paturehon komputer~I'm ready to fix the computer
au tading di parbagasan~I live in housing
au tading di surabaia~I live in Surabaya
au tading i parbagasan~I live in housing
au tading niroham asi~I live in your heart darling
au tanda ma ho~I know you
au tarhapit bahen angkang~I'm stuck for my brother
au tarhurim hamuna tarapul~I hope you are entertained
au tarhurim manean matami~I hope to inherit your eyes
au tarompas nangkin borngin~I fell last night
au tembak mate ho~I'll shoot you dead
au tombom ho annon~I'll hit you later
au tompu padirgakhon bohihu~I spontaneously straightened my face
au tompur annon ho~I'll hit you later
au tona dua hirang~I ordered two baskets
au tona sada bagian~I ordered one portion
au tonggohon ho monang~I pray you win
au tongos manuhor bolas~I can leave you some snacks
au tongtong manghaholongimu holonghu~I always love you my love
au tongtong porsea hatam~I always believe your word
au totong rampak ho~I'm surprised by you
au tuhorhon indahan balut~I bought packaged rice
au tuhu rap ho~I'm serious about you
au tuk au sogo~I'm tired, I'm fed up
au tulen batak marga~I am from the Batak clan
au umma pardompahan ho~I kiss your forehead
auhon ondeng hataluon mi~just admit your defeat
aut adong dope inang~if there was still a mother
aut isi ho dison~if you were here
baba artina di manghatai~the mouth is for speaking
baba hamuna ni dianggapi~watch your mouth
baba ho gok juo~Your mouth is full of sperm
baba ho urupi pantun~Your mouth please be polite
baba marbisa roha ungap~poisonous mouth, rotten heart
baba mi asi lasiak~Your mouth loves chili
baba mi bau tuak~Your mouth smells like palm wine
baba mi tudos ruang~your mouth is like a hole
baba ni laos marbisa~that mouth is indeed poisonous
baba pargabus musem tarnata~The mouth of a liar also turns out to be
baba pedan tudos bangke~friend's mouth is like a carcass
baba ungap ndada marparange~immoral foul mouth
babami annon maribak maribak~your mouth will tear
babami hu rinsan annon~I'll tear your mouth apart later
babami mambahen rohahi targete~Your mouth tears my heart apart
babami mansam manuk marpira~Your mouth is like a chicken laying eggs
babami ni di radot~watch your mouth
babami pala ndada jeges~your mouth is not very good
babamu tudos lubaklubak tete~your mouth is like a cesspool
babana sihit tu hambirang~his mouth tilted to the left
babi diharangan asing damporna~Other wild boars are delicious
babi ho olo mokmok~Your pig is fat
babi panggang batak karo~karo roast pork
bada sada pungkul olo~one hour difference
badanmu patut di diapuli~your body deserves to be caressed
badanmu retes dohot gurdung~your body is frail and bent
badanna jogi dohot botang~his body is strong and stocky
baea baea parkarejo pir~hard working man
baen, bahen na marasingasing~make something different
bag nunga udut karejo~yes, I've continued working
bagak dohot surung ganup~beautiful with their own advantages
bagak ibana tulen dia~where is she really beautiful?
bagak loni obukna holi~her hair is beautiful
bagak olo ombun sa~the clouds are beautiful
bagak sahali hamlethu on~My girlfriend is so beautiful
bagak sahali nanialap on~This lady is very beautiful
bagak siminikna tudos ompungna~her granddaughter is beautiful like her grandmother
bagakna ara angkang siingoton~it's beautiful, invite your brother to impress
bagas alo na dihatindanghon~in the match witnessed
bagas basabasam olo jahoba~in your grace, O God
bagas be haugamoon kristen~in every Christian religion
bagas bongka gurat pomparan~in terms of lineage
bagas hauason dohot tarhinos~in thirst and exhaustion
bagas kota tuhor botik~in town buy papaya
bagas lomo manang bonos~in joy or sorrow
bagas pardalananna saleleng on~on his journey so far
bagas rimasmu isi holong~in your anger there is love
bagian hu do sude~it's all my fate
bagihon hadameon roha tuau~give me peace of mind
bagihon hapateon bahen au~give me certainty
bagihu ho na tarlengket~to me you are the most beautiful
bagihu ho na umuli~to me you are the most beautiful
bagudung nagara maupma ho~country mouse. you're dead
bah na bohado mata~what about the eyes?
bahasa anak hu hamoraon~my son's Batak language is wealth
bahasa anggiat dia rongkaphu~Batak language, I hope he is my soul mate
bahasa bajar hambing tunggal~Batak language Bajar male goat
bahasa batak buku pangungkapon~Batak language, the book of revelation
bahasa batak dohot lapatanna~Batak language and its meaning
bahasa batak hamuna lilu~Your Batak language is perverted
bahasa batak ndada ojak~unofficial Batak language
bahasa laok aor on~this mixed language
bahasa mi hurang mamporseahon~Your language is not convincing
bahasa ompung doli au~my grandfather's language
bahasa pehu angkang sibagur~Brother Frog's planetary language
bahasa sa manuk boruboru~The Batak language is hen
bahasa sadia sada solup~Batak language how much is one liter
bahasam ndada patut dipasuman~your language is not worthy of imitation
bahasam patuduhon ise dirim~Your language shows who you are
bahen hansur rap dongan~destroy it with friends
bahen hu mansut jadina~it makes me melt
bahen ndang taratara ondeng~just make it unappetizing
bahen ngorngor nasida ni~make them anxious
bahen pardamean ate hamusuon~create peace, not hostility
bahen parmanison balu birat~make plump widow pellets
bahen pudun mangolu babi~make a pig snare
baju adat halak batak~Batak people's traditional clothes
baju adat halak batak~Batak people's traditional clothes
baju ho denggan hian~your clothes are very nice
balang padalanhon hata tuhan~faithfully carry out God's word
balanga dohot sonduk saok~frying pan and spoon
balbal muse hepeng hu~I have no more money
balga hatahatana holit pongkot~Big talk, stingy capital
balga hau balga dangkana~big wood, big branches
balga hian dasingan sa~it's very big in size
balga nai dosa nion~This sin is very big
balga pangaluaran sian pamasuhon~expenses exceed income
balga untung saotik mago~big profit, little loss
bali ni panjaja ni~drive out the invaders
baltung ama ho puntar~Your father's penis broke
bangkol au leleng leleng~I was reluctant for a long time
bangkol au rap ho~I hate you
bangkona habotoan musem nuaeng~His nature is also known now
bangso batak na umjeges~the best Batak tribe
bangso hamuna tangkas talu~your tribe will definitely lose
banuam imbar dohot banuahu~Your world is different from mine
baoa batak na riting~an angry bastard guy
baoa bongak asal medan~handsome man from Medan
baoa na hu sihol~the man I dream of
baoa ni mamalu gitarna~the man played his guitar
baoa on naung marripe~this man is married
baoa tagas horong haua~the dream man of women
bapbap ma jo angkang~Beat him first, brother
barang na pala limutlimuton~very ancient stuff
barangna ndang dope ro~the goods haven't arrived yet
barani ho alo au~dare you to fight me
barani ho dadap anggi~How dare you touch my sister?
barani ho mansam mansam~do you dare to be like that?
barani loni ho martolon~how dare you swear
barita las ni roha~joyful news
barita marhabot ni roha~news of misfortune
barita nauli ingkon dibaritahon~the gospel must be preached
baritahon umpama naung dalan~let me know that it's running
baritai anggo nunga ro~let me know when it comes
baruang muse tarnok olo~bear. I'm asleep right now
basa ba kebal dope~In the future, it's immune again
basar dohot pantun nasida~they are friendly and polite
basar pasingothon jolma asing~kindly rebuke others
basar sahali nasida olo~they are very friendly
batak guruhon medan porang~Batak language learn the battlefield
batak sa di pahatop~the Batak language is accelerated
batu bara marga hu~my clan's coal
batu na jagar uarnana~beautiful colored stone
baurbaurhonma rajuman anak anaha~bless my children's fortune
be jolma dohar disalamathon~everyone can be saved
be panagaman isi hadengganon~every suggestion is good
be sipasingot ari rea~every holiday celebration
be tingki na torbang~every time that passes
bege ma anggukangguk rohahi~hear the cry of my heart
bege ma ende on~listen to this song
bege ma rohahi on~listen to my feelings
bege ma soara pusupusuhu~listen to the sound of my heart
bege ma tak pusupusuhu~listen to my heartbeat
bege ma torsa hasonangonhu~listen to my story of happiness
beha baritana angkang april~How are you doing, April?
beha daina na diahap~how does it feel to experience it?
beha dohot ulaon mi~How is your work going?
beha ho dohot ampin~how are you with the defense
beha lakku manang longo~How? popular or quiet?
beha on mata bollang~how these eyes bulge
beha pandaoni manang hamsar~how about a healer? is it smooth?
beha panghilalaanmu tu au~how do you feel about me
beha pariama ari on~how is the harvest today
beha parpadanan tingki jo~what was the agreement in the past?
beha parsorion pinggol mi~how are your ears?
beha parsorionmu di an~how are you there
beha parsorionmu naung malum~How are you recovering?
beha ra parbogason rosu~how do you want to have intimate relations?
beha sara mandapothon rohami~how to get your heart
beha sara mangarorot hamu~how to take care of you
beha sara patupahon sa~how to provide it
beha sikkolana ari on~how was school today
bene sahali au on~I'm so tired
benget martangiang dohot markarejo~persevere in prayer and work
benget padalanhon harohaon jahoba~persevere in doing God's will
bere baea baea tarasi~beloved nephew
bere dohot anggi baoa~Lanang's nephew and sister
berehu naung tarnono sinok~My nephew is fast asleep
bereng ma humaliang hita~look around us,
bereng ma taon hatutubum~look at your birth year
beta anggi angkang lungunan~Come on, brother, brother, you're lonely
beta bahen hagaoron muse~let's make some noise again
beta do ihut pariburhon~come on and join in the fun
beta hehe dalan do~Come on, let's be agile
beta himpu manjaha buku~let's get together to read the book
beta hita dalan tujabu~let's walk home
beta hita lulu godung~let's look for a building
beta hita lulu pongkot~let's look for capital
beta hita mandurung dengke~let's catch fish
beta mangan soto medan~let's eat soto Medan
beta mangiran hita luhut~let's hunt us all
beta marbada topar hita~let's have a fist fight
beta marmangmang das marjanji~Come on, be determined until the agreement
beta marsiadu bohi roa~let's have an ugly face race
beta marsiajar marsogot unjun~let's study for the exam tomorrow
beta martenju barani ndada~Come on, let's fight, don't you dare?
beta surathon anak hamu~Come on, register your child
beta torkan au ise~Come on, guess who I am
beta tuhor di marsipature~let's buy to preserve
beuk dohot gisi dos~immunity and balanced nutrition
biang dohot sude on~dog with all this
biar au nangkok hopal~I'm afraid to get on a plane
biar ndada malo marlange~afraid, not good at swimming
biar sosa badak ibana~I'm afraid the powder will fade
biarna annon habotoan muse~I'm afraid I'll find out again
biarna hami i pasombu~I'm afraid we'll be left behind
biarna ndada dilehon dainang~I'm afraid mom won't give it to me
bias au mida mi~I hate to see you
bias dohot padan manismu~bored with your sweet promises
biasbias dohot pia roha~hatred and envy
bibel aos loni paboahon~The Bible tells us over and over again
bibel turiturian ni apostel~bible stories of the apostles
bibi hoji hassang ni~The duck wants the peanuts
bibir mi ma patalak~open your lips
bibir mi ni tobal~your lips are thick
bibit anak jolma rittik~wise son of a madman
bibit bontor pintor badia~wise, sincere, honest, pious
bidang tombak hu bolus~I passed by the vast forest
biji di ate ate~item on not not
bilut au dihambirang bilut~My room is next to the room
bilut martapian di toru~bathroom downstairs
binahenna dengke mas tuau~made goldfish for me
bingkas baea baea hirang~basket boy
bingkas baoa mata hirang~what a womanizer man
bingkas borsang kalapa ho~You basic coconut dregs
bingkas boruboru riar ho~you bitch
bingkas goarna musem manisia~base ! his name is also human
bingkas ho anak ilik~You lizard kid
bingkas ho borsang kalapa~You basic coconut dregs
bingkas ho horbo buruk~You bastard buffalo
bingkas ho panangga lapik~you bastard dog
bingkas ho pande tangko~you are a thief
bingkas ho siparjehe holong~You are a traitor to love
bingkas iboto sibuat muko~you sycophantic brother
bingkas manisia marpangalaho buruk~basic human nature is bad
bingkas manisia ndang marutok~brainless human beings
bingkas ndada hea malo~the basics are never good
bingkas pande sibuat muko~what a sycophant
bingkas pardompahan mamak ho~the base of your wide forehead
bingkas pargabus manisia toruk~You liar, low human being
bingkas parompuan marbohi dua~you two-faced woman
bingkas rittik ndada marutok~you crazy brainless bastard
bingkasna alani ho bagak~because you are beautiful
binsan adong dope tampahan~while there is still a chance
binsar ma bintang purba~the morning star rose
biraon loni ho marhatai~you're being presumptuous when you talk
birat loni daging ho~your body is plump
bistok loni ho manggerdek~you're clever at flirting
bistok mangardang i gareja~good at humming in church
bistok naung alai dabodabo~smart already but that's how it is
bistok pistar bisuk tang~smart intelligent clever perfect
boaboa di hita luhut~notification for all of us
boaboa di luhut ruas~notification to all congregations
boahon tu raja isi~tell the king there is
boan haminjon na godang~bring lots of incense
boan hu i dahopanmu~take me in your arms
boan jolo asa tabo~Bring it first so it's delicious
boan laos absen ho~take your absence with you
boan ma goarhu anaha~take my name my child
boan ma pisik mi~take your secret with you
boan ma rohami tuau~bring your heart to me
boan mangan aha manongos~bring what to eat or leave
boan marsogot boang kalas~bring the class decorations tomorrow
boan sopi rara ni~bring the red wine
boasa adong biang dison~why is there a dog here
boasa adong dua huting~why are there two cats
boasa adong kaen bontar~why is there a white cloth
boasa adong podoman tarjomur~why is there a mattress out in the sun?
boasa antong au muse~why me again?
boasa bohi mi mutung~why is your face sullen?
boasa bohim tudos on~why is your face like this
boasa boi sadao on~why did it go that far?
boasa dang adong hepengmu~why don't you have any money?
boasa dapot gaji lae~why do you get a salary?
boasa dapot songoni sautna~why does it happen like that?
boasa dibutbut elekelek ido~why was the application withdrawn?
boasa dipamate talipon sa~why is the phone turned off?
boasa do anak on~why this child
boasa do ibana on~why is he like this?
boasa dohot potongan hu?~what about my appearance?
boasa gabe anakmu au~Why am I your son?
boasa gabe botak ito~why are you so bald?
boasa goar au digora~why is my name mentioned?
boasa goar hu digora~why is my name mentioned?
boasa goarna pe marsiajar~why is it called learning?
boasa halak batak jingar~why are Batak people so fierce?
boasa halakna so ondeng~why are people silent?
boasa hamuna boi tubu~why were you born?
boasa hamuna gaor hian?~why are you guys so noisy?
boasa hamuna godang eol~why do you have so many styles?
boasa hamuna mangalupahon tuhan~why did you forget God
boasa hamuna manggugai gellenghu~why are you bothering my son
boasa hamuna manguhal au~why are you discussing me
boasa hamuna marroha songoni~why do you think so
boasa hamuna marsi palea~why are you insulting each other
boasa hamuna sonang margait~why do you like to joke?
boasa hamuna sude marbadai~why are you all fighting
boasa hamuna uhal kuliah~why are you talking about college?
boasa hasian sarita ma~why, it's a shame to tell me
boasa ho bali au~why did you throw me out
boasa ho mamekhon au~why do you ignore me
boasa ho maminsang au~why are you punishing me
boasa ho mangagahon loakon~why do you boast of stupidity?
boasa ho manungkun margahu~why do you ask my surname
boasa ho mapultak muse~why did you erupt again
boasa ho ndada paloashon~why don't you allow it
boasa ho ra tumpak~why do you want help?
boasa ho tahina apala~why do you mean that?
boasa huroha anggo manungkun~why apparently if you ask
boasa huroha anggo rame~why does it look so crowded?
boasa huroha ari marsogot~why apparently it's tomorrow?
boasa huroha dang boi~why apparently it's not allowed?
boasa huroha ho mengkel~why are you laughing?
boasa huroha tumben galau~why do you seem so confused?
boasa ibana gabe tabanan~why is he a prisoner
boasa jolma batak hum~why do Batak people have the heart?
boasa jolma godang leak~why do humans act so much?
boasa jolma sada on~why this human?
boasa lungun bohi mi~why is your face sad?
boasa lungun doge holonghi~why are you sad, my darling?
boasa lungun ho maendehonna~why are you sad when you sing it?
boasa mangangguk boru borui~why is that girl crying?
boasa maniop sigaret ho~why are you holding your cigarette?
boasa manungkun ina au~why ask my mother
boasa maol diain taliponna~why is it so hard to pick up the phone?
boasa mardandi hasian mi~why sulk your darling
boasa marhatahata asi hu~why are you nagging my darling
boasa motorna di gadis~why is the car being sold?
boasa mutung bohi mi~why is your face frowning?
boasa mutung bohi mi~why is your face sullen?
boasa mutung? sarita son~why are you frowning? story here
boasa naung dohar upaupa~why did you get a gift?
boasa ndada di jaha~why don't you read it?
boasa ndada dilehon boto~why didn't you tell me?
boasa pangalusina boi salngam~why does the answer connect?
boasa pidong ho tarhapit~why is your bird stuck?
boasa rap au pinjil~why am I different?
boasa ressok sahali diatas~why is there so much noise upstairs?
boasa ro ro targotap~why is it suddenly disconnected?
boasa ro tu son~why come here
boasa rohana boi tarputik~why did his heart break?
boasa songonon pardalanan hu~why is my journey like this?
boasa songonon siahapon hu~why is my fate like this?
boasa tarsunggul pungkul nasai~why are you awake at that hour?
boban di tu dia~where is the load going?
bodat ho bou pala~Your armpits smell really bad
bodat on laos jugul~This monkey is really stupid
boha do bagian hi~what is my fate?
boha do hadungonna on~how does this end?
boha do main doho~how do you play?
boha do panggang on~how to bake this
boha ma ama pastor~How is it, Father Pastor?
boha ma ingkon do~that's how it should be
boha ma jullong torus~how does the flooding continue?
boha sara di mangompa~how to carry it?
boha sara pangoluhon sa~how do I turn it on?
bohi daldal nasida mardua~sour faces on both of them
bohi suping roha mangangguk~smiling face, crying heart
bohihu mamintor mardompak dohot~my face was directly facing him
bohihu na roa on~my face is ugly
bohim birong tudos agong~your face is black as charcoal
bohim suman rampak ina~your face looks like mom
bohim tudos ruang tambon~your face is like a butthole
boi di lango ndada~can it be negotiated or not
boi dietong lonsam hepengna~the amount of money can be calculated
boi dihara lao mardalani~can be invited to go for a walk
boi dilompa gabe kue~can be cooked into cakes
boi ditatap sian au~can be seen from me
boi do au dialo~I can fight
boi do au eat~can I be jealous?
boi do bingkas laos~it's usually basic
boi do gabung dison~can you join here?
boi do hita marsitandaan~Can I get to know you?
boi do hita tandaan~can we get to know each other?
boi do radot rohahi~can you take care of my feelings?
boi jalo nasida saotik~can accept them a little
boi ma asar ranggiting~it could be a beehive
boi ma boasa huroha~Yes, it's possible, why apparently?
boi ma hita martandang~we can date
boi ma mura ni~it could be . that's easy
boi manungkun hatorangan parende~can interview the singer
boi masuk tu lombang~can go into the abyss
boi musem gitar nabodari~it could also be guitar overnight
boi pauli parbogason hita~can improve our relationship
boi sitoha apala bongak~It could be such a coincidence, great
boi sungkun angkang lae~Can I ask my brother-in-law?
boido hamu mangaligi on~can you check this?
boido ndada ihut au~can you not come with me?
bojak naeng saut lombu~the frog wants to become an ox
bolas au bebe ihurmi~can I squeeze your butt?
bolas au bebe ihurmi~can I squeeze your butt?
bolas au sali hepengna~can I borrow the money?
bolas dipabuni aha ndada~can it be saved or not?
bolas dipasuman ramuan lompalompana~you can copy the recipe
bolas do au mangkaolho~may I hug you
bolas do au marisap~can I smoke?
bolas ma au mangkaolho~can I hug you?
bolas ma modom an~go on sleeping there
bolas pangido pandapot ndada~can I ask for your opinion?
bolas sitoha au male~OK... I happen to be hungry
boli ma babi ni~buy that pig
boli ma kue au~buy my cake
boli ma mura ai~buy it cheap
bolis alai hona dohar~devil but lucky
bollang hamuna mida hu~You're glaring at me
bolong aek ndada diburi~the toilet is not cleaned
bolong hodok botari ari~sweating in the afternoon
bona ni hau haminjon~frankincense tree
bona ni hau harambir~palm tree
bona ni hau suang~series tree
bona ni hau suhat~caladium tree
bona ni hau tuak~sap tree
bonai manogot dohot sarapan~start the morning with breakfast
bonai sasudena dohot denggan~start things off well
bonai sasudena dohot tangiang~start everything with prayer
bonana anggo ardoan tole~especially when it comes to sexual relations
bonana anggo hasuharan tole~especially if it's a sexual problem
bonar anak ranto hita~the spirit of our regional children
bonar jesus na maniru~the exemplary spirit of Jesus
bonar ma au on~I'm right
bonar markarejo donganhu luhut~keep working hard my friends
bonar ou lembur bodarina~I'm enthusiastic about working overtime at night
bonar sahali ibana mangganti~he was so enthusiastic about copying
bonarna au manjaga ibana~I sincerely look after him
bondar balga do solpa~the big ditch was blocked
bondut babi harangan ni~swallow the wild boar
bongka na timbil sihabiaran~the most feared thing
bongka on digora ruhut~these are called rules
bongkar muat sauit ibana~loading and unloading his palm oil
boni eme na denggan~good rice seeds
boni nadumenggan tingki jolo~superior seeds for the future
bonor ma di ahu~be honest to me
bontar loni hita olo~we're white, okay?
bontean siholhu paima haroroanhu~I miss the dock waiting for my arrival
bontordo rohami manjalo hahurangonhi~Your heart sincerely accepts my shortcomings
boraspati boraspati di dorpi~House lizard on the wall
borat hian molo songoni~that's really hard
borhat hatop demi piso~leaving quickly for the knife
borhat ma anak hu~go, my son
borhatma holong risik didalan~Go, darling, be careful on the road
borit porsan dohot gonting~pelvic and low back pain
borit tanggurung dohar manjadi~back pain may occur
borngin badia sagang silonging~silent holy night
borngin bollang arian modom~night literate day sleep
borngin digobari rumondang bulan~the night is covered with moon
borngin minggu sa diruma~Sunday night at home
borngin na gok halalas~a night full of fun
borngin na pala mangalojai~very tiring night
borngin na sagang silonging~silent night
borngin on hita marlumba~tonight we compete
borngin on mangaranap sahali~I really thought about it tonight
borngin on tung manaritahon~tonight was really disappointing
borngin tarjaga salpu silonging~awake at night then silent
bornginna ibana manghatahatai dohot~that night he talked with
boru andorang mangatim hajegesonna~girls are enjoying its beauty
boru bagak anak sipolan~beautiful daughter aka child
boru batak manunsi piring~Batak girls wash dishes
borua bagak imbaru sorang~beautiful new born girl
borua bagak paima haroroanhu~beautiful girl waiting for my arrival
borua batak manunsi pinggan~Batak girl washing dishes
borua marabit rara bagak~the girl in the red dress is beautiful
borua metmet ande goarna~little girl gave up her name
borua metmet martujung gorsing~little girl in a yellow headscarf
boruboru bagak dohot donda~beautiful and graceful woman
boruboru batak ni bongak~Batak women are great
boruboru na au sonom~the woman I desire
boruboru ndada puna pangalaho~females have no morals
boruboru ni rasun portibi~that woman is the poison of the world
boruboru poso maranak dua~young woman with two children
boruboru saep dihasiani tuhan~patient women are loved by God
borum musem boruhu pa~Your daughter is also my daughter, right?
bosol mi na idia~where is your boil?
bosur das tu aruaru~full to the throat
bosur mangan sendor borngin~full of cendol at night
botang jogi jogi lagak~dashing, tough, strong, handsome
botari di kota medan~twilight in Medan city
botari on au arsean~I'm hot this afternoon
boti ma hata tuhan~thus says the Lord
botik ido pala tonggi~papaya is very sweet
boto do au ni~I know that
botohon dohot pargolangan tangan~arms and wrists
botohon ginjang jambar bagas~inner upper arm
botohonna tarlonop bagas buntak~his hands were buried in the mud
bou gedekgedek alai angur~underarm odor but fragrant
bou loni gedekgedek mi~the smell of your armpits
bou manuk robus migar~the smell of stale boiled chicken
bou na ginagat horbo~the smell of buffalo dung
buangga holong loni ho~I love you too much
buangga ma ho ni~you are too much
buas ale dang uar~splurge, yes, not much
buat di kantor hupas~pick it up at the police station
buat jo hiap ni~take the fan first
buat lima garar sada~take five pay one
buat ma salomo mi~make it whatever you like
buat mutu bahen udur~make you willing to queue
buat ondeng di poti~just take it in the box
buat sada antirha hurhur~take one grated cassava
buathon ampehon pamian pautang~take it put it down save lend it
buathon bulan tula ni~get me that full moon
buea diotoi rampak pais~The crocodile was tricked by the deer
bugang roha sabagas bagasna~heartache, deep inside
buhai diapilhon olo loguna~I'm starting to memorize the song
buhai marsi mangaduk diri~start improving each other
buhai sian na tagelleng~starting from the smallest
buktina pangido rampak tuhan~ask God for proof
buku bibel 5 musa~book. Deuteronomy Bible
bulan april nunga ro~April has arrived
bulu disuan di hauma~bamboo planted in the fields
bulung agoan uhum basir~vile shard leaves
bulung botik karo sa~Papaya leaves are the Karo language
bulung bunga maruarna ijo~the flower leaves are green
bulung pisang di mambalut~banana leaves for wrapping
bulungna di mambahen tarup~leaves to make a roof
bulungna di pasaut sipadot~the leaves are made into brooms
bulungna manggunanggun tarullus alogo~the leaves swayed in the wind
bunbunan parsadaan dolidoli batak~Batak youth association
bunbunan parsikkola na timbo~Students Association
bunga anggerek halomoon mi~your favorite orchid flower
bunga melos hosing kambang~Withered flowers bloom again
bunga melos mulak kambang~Withered flowers bloom again
buntak ido pala sogir~mud is very dangerous
buri antirha das ias~Wash the cassava until clean
buri tangan dohot sintong~wash your hands properly
burjuburju ondeng olo haduan~okay, the day after tomorrow
burjum holan tonel angkang~Your kindness is just an act, brother
bursik ondeng anggo barani~just blurt it out if you dare
buru buru hamu sikkola~hurry up and go to school
buruon timbung asa bagak~Hurry up and jump in so it's cool
busbus tuhor mangan herek~immediately buy monkey food
busisa huhilalahon sangga on~I feel anxious right now
butuha denggal mata hondur~stomach tense... eyes slack
dabodabo soaram tung jorbut~that's how terrible your voice is
dada boru sibabi jalang~drug slut
daga ho botang sahali~wow you are so brave
daga isi dengke assim~wow, there's salted fish
daga ou ho hamlethu~oh yes you are my girlfriend
daga posa ho on~Wow, you're serious
daging angkang botang hian~My brother's body is very strong
daging balga utokutok metmet~big body, small brain
daging balga utokutok saotik~big body little brain
daging ho balga hian~your body is really big
daging ho borjong sahali~your body is very sick
daging mi maruap hambing~Your body smells like goat
daging tarhilala gale heu~the body feels weak and tired
daginghu nari marguna tang~my body still functions perfectly
dagingmi na naung gurdung~your body is bent.
dahop asi di ho~love hugs to you
dahop gomos jonok rohahi~hug me tightly close to my heart
dahop sihol sian au~miss hugs from me
daina giot hu topar~I feel like I want to punch him
daina tabo hian asi~it feels really good darling
dainang au biar jarum~Mom, I'm afraid of needles
dainang au ngaet sahali~Mom, I'm so tired
dainang ho di barobo~Your mother was arrested
dainang ibana jungkat sahali~Mom, she's so mean
dainang manghorasi holong hamuna~Mama blesses your love
dainang patupahon mangan borngin~Mom served dinner
dainang saesae di tingkir~naked mom voyeured
dainangi on bonar ma~My mother is right
dais ma au tuhan~touch me God
dakdanak marmeam dohot hoga~children play happily
dalan dalan dihuta jolma~walking around people's villages
dalan na gok marsuga~a path full of thorns
dalan torus unang marsadi~keep going don't stop
dalani dohot atim ondeng~just do it and enjoy it
dalani dohot pasaut mura~live it and make it simple
dali balga birat muse~big breasts are plump again
dali poti marende daging~milk (body organs)
dalihan gogona sandiri masarakat~non-governmental organization
damang boho ina jabir~father is fun, mother is talkative.
damang mangaramoti pinahan hurje~father keeps livestock
damang mangarujak pusok ina~father pierced mother's navel
damang markarejo mangalului daram~father works to earn a living
damang sian ompung boru~grandmother's father
damang sian ompung doli~grandfather's father
dame ma nagari hu~peace is my country
dang adong angguk muse~no more crying
dang adong ari tempo~there are no holidays
dang adong boasa huroha~no, why apparently?
dang adong buruk sa~nothing bad
dang adong gampang saonari~nothing is easy these days
dang adong guna na~There is no point
dang adong guna ni~There is no point
dang adong halus na~no answer
dang adong hasian hu~mace my darling
dang adong hepeng dalanna~there's no money for it
dang adong hepeng hami~we don't have any money
dang adong hepeng hirana~I don't think there's any money
dang adong hepeng katua~no chairman's money
dang adong hepeng mulak~no money home
dang adong hian pulang~no one is coming home
dang adong lanang be~no wetness whatsoever
dang adong libur hamuna~you don't have any holidays
dang adong marga iba~I don't have a surname
dang adong mari boto~there is no ber ito
dang adong na halus~Nothing is wrong
dang adong pulsa hi~I don't have any credit
dang adong sambal andaliman~there is no andaliman chili sauce
dang adong utokmi hubereng~I can't see your brain
dang anture au pandapotmu~I don't need your opinion
dang boan bohal au~I didn't bring my lunch
dang boi muba lojaau~I can't change, I'm tired
dang denggan do marisap~it's not good to smoke
dang denggani tu hagompison~it's not good for health
dang di angkat ho~not on your adoption
dang di jakarta au~not in my Jakarta
dang hea ris sada~one is never enough
dang libur dope sikkolamu~It's still not your school holiday yet
dang mulak marari raya~not coming home for the holidays
dang porsea boruboru on~don't believe this woman
dang porsea ina on~don't believe this mom
dang puna hepeng musem~don't have any money either
dangol sibalanjoan angkup sadasa~suffering is borne by oneself
daniel godang pantas sahali~Daniel talks a lot
daompungna nini nini au~my great-great-great-grandfather
daona pardalanan on ina~it's a long journey, mother,
dapotan habot sa sajo~It's just cloudy
das andigan do ulaning~how long can it be?
das di pistik bonos~reaches saturation point
das idaonhu bohi ulimu~until I see your beautiful face
das jumpa di bontean~See you at the port
das luhut uluni tot~up to all knees
das manaluhon tambon horbo~to beat the buffalo's ass
das mara on salpu~until this epidemic passes
das mardomu mulak holonghu~until we meet again my love
das ndada dohar mangalupahonsa~until you can't forget it
das parbolatan tano parpadanan~to the border of the promised land
das pistik hania parpudi~until the last straw
das poto hami dipabuni~until our photos are saved
das saedo olo tuhan~until it's finished, oh my god
das tartuhor motor ido~until I bought the car
das tu paradianan parpudi~get to the final stop
dasar ama ama roa~You are an ugly father
dasingan sadia lupa au~what size? I forget.
dasip jo hata nimmu~arrange your words first
dasip loni anggihi on~This is my brother's patent
date au halado ho~I'm tired of serving you
datu dohar pabali begu~Shamans can exorcise ghosts
datu maranak huta hami~our village midwife
dauk na ringkot jogi~soft, the important thing is strong
daulat ma di ahu~be loyal to me
daulat ma tuau asi~be loyal to me darling
debata mamasumasu akka gellenghu~God bless my children
dembal ma anggo barani~hit it if you dare
demi hepeng pardonganon ganggang~for the sake of money, friendship is broken
denggal aha do amang~What's so tense?
denggan amang sun dihangoluhon~Okay sir. ready to be implemented
denggan bontor tunggun tigor~good, sincere, authority, fair
denggan denggan haraan ho~OK, your invitation
denggan denggan ho marsikkola~it's good that you go to school
denggan do tunduk amang~that's good according to dad
denggan hian bahen ubat~it's good for medicine
denggan hian soaram angkanghu~Your voice is very nice, my brother
denggan muse pandapot loguna~The song suggestion is also good
denggan sahali tata hu~very good my father
denggan sian suhi aha~good in terms of what?
dengke assim musem tabo~Salted fish is also delicious
dengke puna amang ianakhon~Bani's fish
di alut ma jo~get it sorted first
di alut muse tulang~is it being massaged again, uncle?
di angguliman dohot tangiang~for greetings and prayers
di apoi rampak ina~reprimanded by mother
di bagas sandok jambar~in all parts
di bagihon hosa hangoluon~given the breath of life
di binanga na lomak~in a lush river
di boho roha sangombas~to please you for a moment
di bona ni rambutan~on the rambutan tree
di buat siinumon tabo~makes a delicious drink
di dais miak babi~smeared with lard
di dia asal sisingamangaraja~Where does Sisingamangaraja come from?
di dia dirim sonari~where are you now
di dia hoda mi~where is your horse?
di didia ho tading~where you live
di ebati dingkan tondong~visited by the family
di ginjang ho paolooloi~above you follow
di godung jolo ho~in the building in front of you
di hail hail antong~on a fishing rod too
di halak nada puna~in people tone has
di halalas di an~for the excitement there
di haolan borua asing~in the arms of another girl
di haolan jolma asing~in someone else's arms
di ho ngolu dangol~for you to live a miserable life
di ho tusuk nian~at you prick understandable
di ho tusuk nion~you stabbed this
di hurum igung bibir~on the cheeks nose lips
di jabu au sasadaon~at home I'm alone
di jabu, boasa huroha?~at home, why apparently?
di jabuhu udan panangga~it's raining dogs in my house
di jaman ruas parjolo~in the time of the early church,
di jolma na jogi~to tough people
di jolo jabum au~I'm in front of your house
di jolo jolma sandang~in front of pregnant people
di joujou ina partigatiga~to call the merchant's mother
di jua sasara tata~rejected outright
di lambung huta jabu~around the house area
di lambung parhutaan nasida~around their village
di mamburu pinahan diharangan~to hunt animals in the forest
di mandaoni sihol on~to cure this longing
di mangagohon ringgarung sa~to get rid of the deer
di mangalus mauliate godang~to answer Mauliate Godang
di mangarujak daging binatang~to pierce the body of an animal
di manggohi haporluon ngolu~to meet life's needs
di manggonti hasesega motor~to replace car damage
di manogot na marlinang~on a radiant morning
di manulangi au mangan~to feed me
di marbiasbias sian ho~to avoid you
di martingting homitan raja~to announce the king's will
di mulak ringgarung marsogot~to go home deer tomorrow
di mulana holom sasudena~At first everything was dark
di ndada andar luhut~everything is not clear
di oto otoi ra~I'm going to be stupid. I'm going to be stupid
di pabalihon parbinotoan sa~to pass on his knowledge
di pahiandu marmata bolak~for wide-eyed wanderers
di pahiandu marmata mangginju~for wandering-eyed wanderers
di pambahenan sipatudu dalan~at the guide service
di parhorasan tondi angkula~for safety of body and soul
di pariburhon ulaon ido~to enliven the event
di pasondothon pambalian pirus~to stop the spread of the virus
di pasupasu pambahenan mi~bless your efforts
di patupa pardenggan basa~provided a gift
di pedan hu suansuanan~for my friend Flora
di porlak jolo jabu~in the garden in front of the house
di porlak jonok jabu~in the park near the house
di puang sian batak~for friends from Batak
di puang sian medan~for friends from Medan
di pustaha soara on~in this sound library
di pusuk na bagak~at the beautiful peak
di ranto anggiat mardohar~good luck overseas
di ruar angkal hipas~beyond common sense
di sala sada dorpi~on one of the walls
di sangga mardomu inana~when he met his mother
di tanom tu tano~buried in the ground
di tao dia ni~which lake is it in?
di tingki nanaeng ro~in the future
di tio sa matami~in the clarity of your eyes
di tio sa simalolonghi~in the clarity of my eyes
di topi tao dia~on the shore of which lake
di toru hau rambutan~under a rambutan tree
di toru sisik laut~under sea level
di uluni tot olo~on the knees yes
dia bolas ihut ihuton~who can join in?
dia isi au arbis~Wherever I go, I'll mention it
dia ma au boto~how do I know?
dia na ingkon dipajolo~which one should take priority
dia panataon na tingkos~which statement is correct?
dia silua di au~where's the gift for me?
dia silua di au~where's the gift for me?
dia soto medan ho~where's your soto Medan?
dia tongosan hepengna holi~where's the money sent?
dianjak simanjujungna muse modom~stepped on his head while sleeping
diapas au hot saep~insulted, I remain patient
diarihon anak metmet simor~small children have emotions
diarin lomo au ma~let me like it
diarin lupahon tingki salpu~let's forget the past
dibagasan hopal laut do~on a ship?
dibahen menak torus ditadinghon~made comfortable and then left behind
dibasbas pangke tapol gonting~beaten with a belt
dibondut mara tano on~swallowed by this land disaster
dibuat habisukon marhitehite sirarion~policies are taken through meetings
dibuha di an ondeng~just open there
didia adong pangke bahasa~where is language used?
didia hira hira halusna~where do you think it went wrong?
didia hita on inang~where are we mama
didia ho au masihol~where are you I miss you
didia ho buat hotel~where do you pick up the hotel
didia ho buka puasa?~where do you break your fast?
didia ho dabu i~where did you fall?
didia ho dongan hamlethu~where are you my girl friend
didia ho nuaeng hape?~where are you now apparently?
didia ho peak pa~where do you put it?
didia ho tading rundut~where do you live tangled
didia ho talam moru~where your balance is reduced
didia ho tanda ibana~where do you know him?
didia ho,kaluar meam hita~where are you, come out and play with us
didia ho? manghombar ma~Where are you ? come closer
didia ho? manghombar ma~Where are you? come closer
didia inganan tuhor siinumon~where to buy drinks
didia jabuna borua ni~where is that girl's house?
didia parompuan mangaririt baoa~where a woman proposes to a man
didia pe ho hupaima~wherever you are I'll wait
didia peak halusna hirahira~where does the problem lie?
didia rongkaphu olo tuhan~where is my soul mate, oh my god
didia sa peak rohami~where is your heart?
didiado uarna lampak mata~where is the eyelid color?
didobo digosa i insak~persecuted, tortured, insulted
didok denggan ya denggan~When you say it's good, it's good
didongani dohot sabotol sopi~accompanied by a bottle of wine
digadis ondeng dengke sa~just sell the fish
digadis sipatu datu ulok~snake charmer shoes for sale
dihara inum tuak ringgas~invited to drink palm wine diligently
dihasiani dohot di pasangap~loved and respected
diholangholang sia parbue simangot~among the nine fruits of the spirit
diihuthon engkel gok holong~accompanied by laughter full of love
dijama unang das malua~hold it, don't let it go
dilambung tanganhu targombar goarmu~Near my hand is your name painted
dilambungmu rohahi tarae sonang~Near you my heart feels happy
dilat dilat puna hu~lick lick mine
dilean parenta di manjagai~given orders to supervise
dilean sipasingot asa maradi~warned to rest
dilehon pasupasu na tanak~given abundant blessings
dimaenhon apala onom jolma~Minimum six people play
dimuruki guru annon ho~the teacher will scold you later
diondihon dohot ditogutogu damang~protected and guided by father
diondihon tuhan tongtong dalanmu~God will always protect your path
diorai mambolonghon rapan marsineang~it is forbidden to throw any rubbish
diori ma anggo boi~track it down if you can
dipabagak dohot bonang uarna~decorated with colored threads
dipabotohon tu sandok ruas~notified to all members
dipaian i bagas poti~placed in a chest
dipainte parrona angkang lae~Waiting for your brother-in-law's arrival
dipainte parrona jalo asi~Waiting for your arrival, thank you
dipalao hita sian kantor~kicked us out of the office
dipandokoni gariada lamu saut~I think it's getting worse
diparmeamhon baea baea rohana~men play with their feelings
diparsinta bagas roha on~desired in this heart
dipasupasu lima jolma anak~blessed with five children
dipasupasu tuhan tongtong dalanmu~God bless you always on your way
dipatoho tardobo gariada agiat~I think being in an arranged marriage will be tortured
dipeakhon i ginjang bulung~placed on the leaf
dipudi jabuhu musem godang~there are also many behind my house
diputik sian siaginon kristus~learned from the sufferings of Christ
diri dohot torus marhambang~yourself and continue to develop
dirim ndada isi anian~you are incomparable
dirimba sian angkal pangaliluon~resulting from attempts at misdirection
dirina na gok pikkiran~his personality is full of thoughts
dirohahi holan targorga goarmu~In my heart only your name is engraved
disahaphon di manobus ho~handed over to redeem you
disoroni i ruang sadia~in what room are you treated?
disungkun alai ndada mangalus~asked but did not answer
disuru ama tuhor harbue~told me to buy rice
disuru au bagihon pumpe~I was told to share dolls
ditading tingki satonga torbang~left behind by middle age
ditahi punguan di sirarion~planned group for meeting
ditingki arga diri diompashon~when self-esteem is lowered
ditingki ulu on tarunduk~when the head is bowed
dituhaphon mudarna i i~blood was shed there
ditulak bagas sada detik~rejected in one second
ditutung angkup harimpang pamborontak~burned by a group of rebels
diunung sa ma au~I was proposed to
dodot bonosan sinta pedan~condolences friend
dodot manjagai hauma jolma~also supervise people's fields
dodot marsitaonon au olo~I'm sorry to hear that
doge panondang lubuk roha~O light of the heart
dohar jala ponot pasupasu~can be a channel of blessing
dohar sian dia marsiajarna~where can you learn it from?
dohonon ma di ahu~tell me
dohonon ma di au~tell me
dohot ampit suping mi~in harmony with your smile
dohot bangko dohot hasomalon~with traditions and customs
dohot biasbias mangkorhon parbadaan~and hatred results in quarrels
dohot boto tarombo ibana~and know his pedigree
dohot damo endehon ma~sing it melodiously:
dohot di parapat dohot~and close to
dohot di saribu sundut~and for a thousand generations
dohot do ho lao~you go with me
dohot giot ni roha~and fun
dohot gogona pala boho~and the results are very satisfying
dohot hajanghajang imbaru dieaki~with new horizons pursued
dohot hita pe silpe~and we met
dohot ho husiphon holong~and you whisper love
dohot ise hamu modomna~who do you sleep with?
dohot jalo asi sasudena~and thank you all
dohot lea di matami~and despicable in your eyes
dohot manambai sabiji tona~and added a message:
dohot manang dalihan pamarenta~and/or government institutions
dohot mangalopi di au~and begged me
dohot manghatahon saksi gabus~and bear false witness
dohot na jala oroanna~with his fiancé
dohot namarbaju sasara marangkup~and young women in pairs
dohot nasida na mangolap~and those who oppose
dohot odong na marhusor~in a circular direction
dohot on dipabotohon ala~hereby notified that
dohot pahean na birong~with black clothes
dohot pahompu di binanga~with grandchildren at the river
dohot pahompu di pasir~with grandchildren at the beach
dohot pahompu marmeam aek~with grandchildren playing in the water
dohot pamikkiron na rampak~with the same thoughts
dohot panabaan dohot panutungan~by logging and burning
dohot pasombu hu mangkaolho~and let me hug you
dohot sagok rohahi marhata~I say with all my heart
dohot sairing martambana umur~and with age
dohot satabo ra mi~as you wish
dohot soara ditiopi tahan~with a restrained voice
dohot sungguli au dohot~and wake me up with
dohot tongtong ambil tuhan~and always glorify God
dohot tongtong diondihon jahoba~and always protected by Allah
dohot torus manguduti paraloan~and continue to fight
dohot ulaon ama martani~and my father's work is farming
dohot, rap, raphon tudos-tudos~by comparison
dohoti langka marihut on~follow these steps
doit jolo, hinan, hian~taste it first
dok ma lomo saor~Say you like to mingle
dokhon ma di ahu~tell me
dokhon na sabonarna ondeng~just tell the truth
dokhon sabonarna mandapothon au~tell me the truth
dokhon sada olap panghilalaanmu~say something about your feelings
dolidoli balang ndada jongkas~loyal men are not cunning
dolok batu pangondian hu~my rock of protection
dolok ido au dahi~I climbed that mountain
dongan batak diorai paotootohon~fellow Bataks are prohibited from cheating
dongan di baribahu martutu~the friend next to me chirped
dongan imbaru pahompu hu~my grandson's new friend
dongan metmet marmahan horbo~little friend herding buffalo
dongan mi na pabandothu~Your friend is the one who is itchy
dongan na ganjang patna~tough friend
dongan tubu sa hita~our family
donganhu marhatai olap hamletna~my friend was talking about his girlfriend
donganhu on tung ringkot~my friend, this is really funny
dongani au jo asi~friend me first darling
dongani au jo ma~be my friend first
dongani au marsogot manogot~accompany me tomorrow morning
dongani au sondot pusuk~accompany me to the top
donganna ndang isi tu~his friend isn't there
dope olo ho martangiang~do you still want to pray?
dorsun sa ma ni~That's how dirty it is
dorunna ngolu on huhilala~I think life is hard
dos dohot dainang pa~similar to mom, right?
dos ni roha rap~mutual agreement
dos sada rampak asing~balanced with each other
dosa leleng disurat muse~old sins are written down again
dosahu hosing tu ho~My sins return to you
doton di panangkup ursa~net for catching deer
doton doton kareta angin~bicycle net
dua hamlet naung ris~two girlfriends are enough
dua juta saratus ribu~two million one hundred thousand
dua ribu pe lakkudo~two thousand will do
dua taon muse tammat~in two years to graduate
dungdung la nipi mi~achieve your dream
dungdung ma nipi mi~achieve your dream
dungdung nipi satimbo tupa~achieve your dreams as high as possible
dungkon au oto hian~that's why I'm so stupid
dungkon hatop lulu pardijabu~So quickly look for a wife
dungkon hatop topot au~so quickly propose to me
dungkon ho talipon au~that's why you called me
dungkon hudok unang martongtang~that's why I said don't fight
dungkon ido borhat ma~after that go
dungkon mida ompungna hansit~after seeing his grandmother sick
dungkon on ra mulak~after this I want to go home
dungkon panghataion pigapiga sangga~after talking for a while
dungkon sa na marhaporseaon~except those who believe
dungkon sinamotna unang argaarga~that's why the dowry should not be expensive
dungkon unang mangkar torus~so don't stay up late
dungo ho nunga borngin~you wake up it's late
dungo ho sian modommu~wake you up from your sleep
dungo ho, unang busuk~wake up, don't be rotten
dungo ma sian modommu~wake up from your sleep
dungo pungkul tolu dalnat~wake up at three o'clock
dungoi ma suru modom~wake up and tell me to sleep
durus au ho suping~melt me you smile
eak tu jabu au~shifted to my house
edang rap anak lumamglumamg~outing with orphans
edang rap anak parompuan~outing with girls
elat ondeng ho on~You're just jealous
elekelek anju sorang batin~please be patient physically and mentally
elekelek i anju katua~please understand, chairman
elekelek maap sorang batin~Forgive me body and soul
elekelek parrona i kantor~Please be present at the office
elekelek tamiangkon hamamalum sado~please pray for Andong's recovery
elekelek unang pusa au~please don't torture me
emper das kalas sae~terrace until class is over
endatan baba ho atim~Your mouth sucks deliciously
ende on hoding bahenmu~this song is especially for you
eol ho songon pareman~Your style is like a thug
eol pastina ende sulim~western style flute songs
eret otik motor sa~move the car a little
eret saotik jo inong~move a little first, mother
eta lae marmeam musa~Come on, brother-in-law, play incident
gabe galak batak saonari~so fierce now
gabe hita dang diantusi~so we are not understood
gabe ma maap maggarai~OK, thank you, sorry to bother you
gabe pasupasu di dongan~be a blessing to others
gabus ma ho on~you're lying
gabusma gaji ho godang~lie, your salary is big
gadis desa batak bagak~beautiful Batak village girl
gadis hassang gadis hassang~sell nuts sell nuts
gadis piapia ondeng hita~just sell us a kidney
gait hian saut jolma~it's really fun to be a person
gaitna losung hurummu asi~Your dimples are cute, darling
gaji do hami jalo~do we receive a salary?
galang dongan jolma batak~support fellow Batak people
ganasna ho rampak au~you're angry with me
ganasna unang leleng leleng~Don't be angry for long
gandeng tangan hu tuhan~take my hand God
ganjang patna ndang martingki~his legs are too long
ganjang umur tongtong da~always live long yes
ganti ni jalang jalang~copy the greetings
gaor hian nunga borngin~it's very noisy at night
gaor loni hamuna songon~you guys are annoying like that
gaor ma molo songoni~that's a mess then
gara-gara kah awal para~I'm sarcastic at first
garangna sirsir isi donganna~how dare he when his friends are there
garar gararan mi nuaeng~pay your installments now
gareja manghatahon jalo asi~the church says thank you
gari hu iman dongan~while I'm stalking my friend
gari lima boruna margoar~while his five daughters are named
gari margait anak on~this kid is even joking
gari pabali dohot mangolom~instead expelled and ridiculed
garut jo tambon mi~scratch your butt first
gege naung rohahi daina~I feel like my heart is broken
geno ma anggo apala~it's broken then
geok ni bahasa aha~what language is that?
giang ma das mandosdos~stir until evenly mixed
ginjang roha loni ho~you're arrogant
ginjang tano lapang timbo~over the plateau
gioang na timbil marsinondang~the brightest pearl
giot ae au marlojong~I want to feel like running
giot au dahop tangging~I want to hug you tight
giot ligat ma gabe~I want to be agile
giot ligat ma sonang~I want to be agile and safe
giot mandapothon manghajongjonghon ma~I want to get recognition
giot mangan dengke assim~want to eat salted fish
giot mangarahon hoding sa~I want to invite him specifically
giot mangebati inganan ni~want to visit that place
giot modom bagas hapuloan~want to sleep in solitude
giot ni roha hasiangan~worldly pleasures
giot ni roha ni~that pleasure
giot ondeng hupamate ibana~I almost killed him
giot patinda tingki jolo~want to change the future
giot sahali mambunu sa~really wanted to kill him
goar goar suansuanan bagas~names of plants in
goar ulaula manangkup dengke~name of fishing equipment
goarhu anak boru tuan~my name is your daughter
goarmu tongtong hu ingot~I always remember your name
godang bolis marbohi manisia~many demons with human faces
godang dok ho baruang~you talk a lot, bear
godang dok ma ho~you talk a lot
godang dok rumar ho~you're talking a lot of nonsense
godang eme otik jambulan~lots of rice, little hair
godang hian leak lakkudo~lots of behavior
godang hian sarita mangirmu~you have lots of sweet stories
godang holi godang naniomo~lots of bones lots of benefits
godang loni hua ho~lots of your gravy
godang loni la saritamu~you've told many stories
godang loni pe saritamu~your story many times
godang loni saritamu panangga~many times your story is a dog
godang loni tabotabo mi~many times your fat
godang manjaha godang parbinotoan~read a lot, have a lot of knowledge
godang mardalan godang ditatap~lots of walking, lots of views
godang marsabam olo asi~have a lot of patience, darling
godang marsiajar asa tami~I've learned a lot so I ask
godang martangiang godang marpambahenan~pray a lot do a lot
godang na hu bolusi~I've missed a lot
godang na ingkon dipadenggan~there is a lot that needs to be improved
godang pariama sauit nangkin~there was a lot of palm oil harvest earlier
godang pinahan na diondihon~many animals are protected
godang ragam ni tali~there are many varieties of ikat
godang sa panopano mi~you have a lot of acne
godang sahali hatam ido~you talk a lot
godang sahali leak lakkudo~lots of behavior
godang sahali panghulingmu ni~you talk a lot
godang tamue di jabum~many guests in your house
godangan marhatai martimbanghon karejo~talking more than working
godangna ho mangan nangkin~you ate a lot
gogo juang laos timbo~fighting power is indeed high
gogona pe tarsor saragam~the results were almost uniform
gogot au ra dipatorang~it's hard for me to explain
gok dohot ansi gogo~full of deceit
gok dohot tanak doharhu~my sustenance is full and abundant
gok ma martangiang tu~pray a lot to
golap alana nunga borngin~it was dark because it was night
gombung butuha mi annon~your stomach will bloat later
gomos bogasna dibuhuli mangarihon~closely related is determined to have
gomuk hian ho roa~fat, you're ugly
gomuk ho songon babi~you're fat like a pig
gonong sahali hurum mi~your cheeks are so round
gora saotik gabe balga~little things become big
gora sasude tumaon hansit~everyone screamed, holding back the pain
goragora ompung boru bagas~Grandma's call in Batak
gota lohot pala lohot~sticky pulut is very sticky
gota lohot pala lohot~sticky pulut is very sticky
gotap sa tali ebati~the relationship is broken
guna anak perempuan timur~meaning of ancient boru
gunahon bahasa mi sadasa~use your own language
gunahon ombasmu goki ngolum~use your time, fulfill your life
gunahon paet dilam ido~use the bitterness of your tongue
gunung ido au taktak~I climbed that mountain
gurdung ate alana matua~hunched over not because of old age
gurgar biluthu pardijabu angkangna~my room is messy. his brother's wife
gurgur ulum das puntar~boil your head until it explodes
haadongon na ndang diparsinta~undesirable circumstances
haadongon nagara naung gonting~the state of the country is critical
haadongon nagara naung ringkot~the state of the country is important
habalangon di balos parjeheon~Loyalty is rewarded with betrayal
habalangon na hu parbaga~the loyalty I expect
habalangon pangantusion dohot marbinereng~loyalty, understanding and attention
haberengan naung matua au~I look old
haberengan punahu mardosa au~Looks like I'm guilty
habilangan buhai ari on~starting from today
habobongot ho ari on~your entry today
habobongot silom tu indonesia~the entry of Islam into Indonesia
habongna metmet metmet do~the wings are small, aren't they?
habot pa tarullus alogo~the clouds are blown by the wind
habot tabo buat modom~cloudy is good for sleeping Batak
habot tabo sa modom~cloudy makes it good to sleep
habotna au mamereng ho~I'm sad to see you
habut ni tobal sahali~the fog was very thick
hadengganon mangiringi halahoan mi~goodness accompanies your departure
hadirion jolma ni pinjil~People's principles are different
hadoson hata mangorong simalungun~Synonyms of the word Mangorong Simalungun
haduan au naeng matua~someday I will grow old
hadungon hadungon sa pangsiun~at the end of the day he retires
hadungon hadungonna hepeng ni~the end is the money
hagaleon au on asi~My weakness is my darling
hagaleonna tarampe di rohana~His weakness... lies in his heart.
haganupan gogo angkal masarakat~the overall efforts of society
hagaoron di manogot ari~commotion in the morning
hagarangon ho tudos ponji~Your courage is like cotton
hagogoon apala sampulu juta~a minimum force of ten million
hagogoonhi ro sian tuhan~My strength comes from God
haholongan boi au mandonganiho~darling, can I accompany you?
haholongan di dia dirim~lover where are you
haholongan hu unang mangalo~My beloved, don't fight
haholongi ma tuhan debatam~love God, your God
hahomion i nagari bariba~studying abroad
hahomion rampak mantan ho~studying with your ex
hahosukon mamboan tu siaginon~greed leads to suffering
hahuranganna ibana na alang~he is responsible for his shortcomings
hail targora i sampathon~the hook is thrown
hala sampulu ari rea~the tenth of the holiday
hala sampulu tolu juli~July thirteenth
halau ganti gigi susu~drive it away
halet hu na dao~my distant boyfriend
halibutongan maruarna ndang rampak~Rainbow colors are not the same
halilu pikkiran nama mata~mere thoughts
halingma na hubolus ido~stay away from what I passed
hallet mi marlangkat holom~Your girlfriend has dark skin
halomoanhu holan mangarihon mi~My desire is only to have you
halomoanhu mangan huahua sibuk~My favorite is eating meat soup
halusna hu ae ni~I think that's wrong
hamajuon bagas raksa parbinotoan~progress in science
hamaloon naeng ugasan hita~intelligence will be ours
hamamate ndada boi dipasiding~death is inevitable
hamansamon ndada gabe panolai~Diversity is not a divider
hamaolhon ma saotik haroroanhu~appreciate my presence a little
hamat dirina jolma mardosa~considers himself a sinner
hambol pardamean i indonesia~Benefits of peace in Indonesia
hamenakon na gogot didapot~comfort that is difficult to obtain
hami batak huta jogal~we are hooligan village hooligans
hami bereng ma tongkin~we'll see for a moment
hami di antaran ondeng~we're just on the page
hami holan anture tempo~we just need a holiday
hami karejo songon hoda~we work like horses
hami lima anggi maranggi~we are five siblings
hami manggalang parulan tulang~we support uncle's actions
hami manopoti manuk martahuak~we met a rooster crowing
hami maras ginjang jullong~we are concerned about flooding
hami marolopolop gotos ido~we agree with that decision
hami musem patupahon marmansam~we also provide various
hami na manumpahi urupi~we are the ones who help
hami na parjolo nangkok~we were the first to go up
hami ndada boi tudiape~we couldn't go anywhere
hami ndang dohar patu~we cannot be defeated
hami paima parrona olo~We are waiting for your arrival
hami porsea pardijabu paloashon~we believe the wife allows it
hami saripe lao maredangedang~our family went on an excursion
hami sun martaru sasude~we are ready to bet everything
hami taruli ontangan ulaon~we got a party invitation
hamlet hu ditangko jolma~My boyfriend was stolen
hamlet jolma batak antakna~Batak guy's girlfriend, apparently
hamletmu ditangko jolma olo~Someone stole your girlfriend, right?
hamu apala manggiothon roha~you are so exciting
hamu boasa ndada malo~why are you so incompetent?
hamu mate hami sombu~you died we are satisfied
hamu ndada isi pangalaho~you have no morals
hamu ndangna lomo dohotsa~Don't you like him?
hamu parrohahon poto on~you look at this photo
hamu tuhorhon bunga ondeng~You can just buy roses
hamuna annon handit poti~you guys will lift the chest later
hamuna boi joujou au~you can call me
hamuna hona lensem olo~you're being sarcastic, aren't you?
hamuna mangahap malal ndada~do you feel uncomfortable?
hamuna manguhal aha ni~what are you discussing?
hamuna ni limut luhut~you are all moss
hamuna saritai au olo~you guys tell me, okay?
handit jomuran ra udan~lift the clothesline if it's going to rain
handit ma partonggol mi~raise your banner
hangoluon holan ma santokin~life is only temporary
hangoluon na ndada tota~irregular life
hansit gonting hu tuhan~My back hurts, God
hansit hian diharat porhis~it really hurts to be bitten by an ant
hansit hian hu taon~I feel sick
hansit hian ompung boru~grandma is really sick
hansit loni holong sihabunian~sick times hidden love
hansit loni tambon hu~my butt hurts
hansit marnida parange mi~it hurts to see your behavior
hansit na huhilalahon oma~the pain I feel, Mom
hansit on sadihari malum~When will this pain heal?
hansit pat butuha hu~my stomach hurts
hansit pinggolhu bege sa~It hurts my ears to hear that
hansit roha i songgak~hurt at being snapped
hansit roha na huhilalahon~the heartache I feel
hansit rohahi molo ingot~My heart hurts when I remember
hansit sahali aruaru hu~my throat really hurts
hansit sahali bosol on~this boil hurts so much
hansit sahali diharat porhis~it hurts so much to be bitten by an ant
hansit torus na hudalani~I'm in constant pain
hansit uluhu ida parangem~I have a headache looking at your behavior
hapala marutokutok andorang jolo~wise leader in the future
hapateon parpintoron karejo pir~commitment, sincerity, hard work
hape ido tarhona burabura~apparently he was cursed
hape marpadan marga muna~apparently promised your surname
hape puna pangajian tartanom~apparently has hidden skills
hapian dohot angkang bagak~Greetings beautiful sister
hapian rampak habonaronmu angkang~I salute your honesty, brother
hapistaran hu imbaru saotik~I only have a little intelligence
haporseaon hasipelebeguon bangso batak~animist beliefs of the Batak people
haporseaon jolma ni arga~People's trust is expensive
haporseaon na papulikhon hita~faith that separates us
haporseaonhu ndang naeng munggil~My faith will not waver
haporseaonmu na paluahon ngolum~Your faith is what saved your life
haporsukon na naung leleng~long ago misery
haposan ate saut lomona~It's believed that it's not what you want
harajaon harajaon na bolon~great royal kingdom
harajaon sarikkat na sada~one united kingdom
harambir mangabas i pulo~Palm trees wave on the island
haroroanhu laos ndada diparsinta~My presence was indeed unwelcome
haru molo ibana martolon~especially if he swears
haru na ho hatahon~what else are you talking about?
hasadaon ni pala ringkot~Unity is very important
hasadaon sonang di luhut~happy unity for all
hasalaan saotik ho mate~If you make a small mistake you will die
hasangapon adong ma sasudena~honor is everything
hasasahat i bibir tao~arrived at the edge of the lake
hasea amang ramot pakansi~good luck sir happy holidays
hasea dohot bonar sikkolana~success and school spirit
hasian hu nabung muse~My beloved is bald again
hasian unang mangalo turpuk~darling, don't go against nature
hasianna au rampak mi~Unfortunately I'm with you
hasianna ho rap au~unfortunately you are with me
hasintongon jahoba na mangamoti~God's truth protects
hasomalan na ingkon dipauba~habits that must be changed
hasomalan tingkir jolma martapian~the habit of peeping at people taking baths
hasomalon na ndada mamungka~unconstructive habits
hasonangan na mamboan ali~disastrous pleasure
hassang ganjang rampak donganna~long beans with friends
hassang mangalit kambona hau~nuts wrapped around the log
hata au gomgom luhut~I master all languages
hata batak i mekap~Batak language is decorated
hata batak mi marpilitan~Your Batak language is guilty
hata batak porda ombak~hoe handle Batak language
hata batakna tubis bulu~Batak means bamboo shoots
hata halus ni dila~said the wrong tongue
hata hata jambulan habir~words about loose hair
hata hata marata siarum~words from spinach
hata hata pande pijor~the words of the solder
hata hata tombis tallik~words of stabbing
hata holong mi lipe~your love is fake
hata jahoba uarar ma~God's word is victorious
hata jolma jaman jo~ancient people said
hata karo hunik bontar~white turmeric karo language
hata medan sa lampet~His field language is fast
hata na ra dihatahon~the words you want to say
hata sian ompong i~said from hitting with that fist
hata timba dohot tahu~said dipper and dipper
hata tuhan ari on~God's word today
hataboan hatotong bias topik~pleasantness shocked hate fractions
hatahatam ho dilat sadasa~you lick your words yourself
hatahatam pala ndada hasea~your talk is very useless
hatahu martontang dohot rohahi~My words contradict my feelings
hatiha di manogot ari~in the morning
hatiha isi dalan marlombanglombang~when there is a bumpy road
hatop annon mosok ma~Hurry up and it will burn
hatop au naung serep~Hurry up, I'm already downstairs
hatop bahen andar nimmu~quickly make your words clear
hatop benda boi dipature~fast and slow can be arranged
hatop borhatma naung arian~hurry up and leave, it's already noon
hatop dege ulu au~quickly step on my head
hatop ho tembak ibana~quickly shoot him
hatop malum mas josua~Get well soon, Joshua
hatop malum permata rohahi~Get well soon, gem of my heart
hatop mambege benda suba~quick to hear, slow to speak
hatop mamburju huta hu~My village will get better quickly
hatop mate ho panipu~die quickly you cheater
hatop pasuda parbue sa~quickly finish the fruit
hatorangon na nantuari musem~yesterday's statement too
hatotong au mamereng ibana~I was surprised to see it
hatotong au mida ibana~I was surprised to see him
hatuaon nari rap hita~luck is still with us
hau mi mambahen lamo~Your tree makes you cool
haua pangimbung lonap lonap~lust overflows
hauararon hadumaon hahuasoon pabalgahu~glory, prosperity, power, greatness
haulion lung tano ompung~the natural beauty of the ancestral land
haulion mi na tudos~your beauty resembles
hea do ho mangarimpu~have you ever thought
hea hita mandalani hamagoan~we have experienced. lost
hea mangurupi panangga tarhapit~once helped a stuck dog
hea marroha di lao~ever thought about leaving
hea saor musem ho~Have you ever socialized too?
hebo loni ho pe~you're excited too
hehe bontis ligat mangengkos~agile nimble skillful shrewd
hehe ma jala tiurma~arise and be bright
hela inangmi dohot amongmu~your mother and father's son-in-law
helahi babana tudos tel~My son-in-law has a mouth like a bucket
helhul jolma jabu paiashon~it's a hassle for house people to clean
hembang di porlak lungunan~blooming in a lonely garden
hepeng au buhai marlaslas~my money is starting to run low
hepeng boi manggomgomi portibi~money can rule the world
hepeng boi manguba sasudena~money can change everything
hepeng bona ni garar~down payment
hepeng dalanhu saut parmeamanmu~my way money is your game
hepeng hu meat didia~where does my money lie?
hepeng na pature boruboru~money rules women
hepeng na pature pardonganon~money rules friendship
hepeng ndang dongan saama~money doesn't matter
hepeng pe naung marlaslas~money is already running out
hepengna pature portibi dongan~money rules the world, friend
hian au giot lao~I wanted to go first
hian ra tu onan~I was going to the market
hiap pa pangke harotas~The fan uses paper
hiap sopola habiaran roha~passed without worry
hilalahon sonang bagas roha~feel happy in your heart
himpal manggoreng pinsur marrupa~Whole fried spiky shaped
himpu muse beta ma~Come on, let's get together again
hinan hea saut parorot~I used to be a nanny
hipas do hamsar karejom~be healthy, your work will run smoothly
hipas do ho holong~you are healthy, love
hipas do ompung doli~Grandpa is healthy
hipas hipas ma amonghu~My father is healthy and healthy
hipas ma jolma damang~be healthy, father.
hipas pardagingon dohot partondion~physically and mentally healthy
hipas sa ho sibagur~You're healthy, frog
hira hira pungkul matua~around midnight
hirana ho tongtong mangalehon~May you always give
hirana tuhan tongtong mamasumasu~May God always bless
hisap balga bonda saotik~big desires have few
hita aga rampak ho~we are proud of you
hita alo parjahat sa~we fight the criminals
hita ampin nagara on~we defend this country
hita ara nasida musem~Let's invite him too
hita di pasada salelengna~we are united forever
hita dohar mandodo ala~we can surmise that
hita gurgari borngin on~we messed up tonight
hita gurgari muse nasida~we'll mess them up again
hita gurgari ondeng nasida~let's just mess with them
hita gurgari torus nasida~we keep messing with them
hita hira mora hutanda~we think like I know
hita ingkon tongtong mardua~we must always be together
hita jahahon sasara marsorinsorin~we read it in turn
hita lao annon dongan~we'll go later friend
hita mabaor di marpogo~we drift to survive
hita martangiang tagan margareja~we pray before worship
hita naeng mangan rappak~we will eat together
hita nari hot mangulahon~we are still implementing it
hita naung sihol margareja~we miss worship
hita ndada marsi mangantusi~we don't understand each other
hita on batak tulen~we are real Batak
hita pa dongan iboto~we are brothers and sisters
hita pala anture edang~we really need a picnic
hita pasada roha hita~we unite our hearts
hita pasip ondeng jo~let's just leave it alone for now
hita pe sipata lehe~we sometimes make mistakes
hita pir dohot lonong~we are hard and sinking
hita pudun parbogason on~we have this relationship
hita rasip jolma ansi~we eradicate hypocrites
hita rimrim ringkiringki medan~we are all in the field together
hita saehon mangan jo~Let's finish eating first
hita so ibana sipanggaron~we are quiet he is acting
hita sude porlu tuhan~we all need god
hita tarabuk marsiallangan roha~we are forced to be enemies
hita tarpasiding sian masala~we avoid problems
hita ulahi muse olo~let's do it again, OK?
hita unungan taon jolo~we'll apply next year
ho adong ma parjahat~you are a criminal
ho ai mora babi~you're like a pig
ho anak balu hu~you are my widow's son
ho anak rumar sian~you are the illegitimate child of
ho andorang dasip aha~what are you putting together?
ho andorang manggotil gadong~are you harvesting sweet potatoes?
ho atimi ma ni~you enjoy it
ho baea manang borua~Are you male or female
ho bagak alai gabus~you're beautiful but you're lying
ho bagak holong rambu~you are beautiful darling pandu
ho bagak mora lombu~you are beautiful like a cow
ho bagak mora lubaklubak~you are beautiful as a drain
ho balos surathu jo~you reply to my letter first
ho bege on nanialap~you heard this ma'am
ho boasa bagak hian~why are you so beautiful?
ho boi ndada maniroi~you can't explain
ho boi paila au~you can embarrass me
ho boruboru marabit balau~you're the lady in blue
ho boruboru umuli au~you are my best woman
ho bura bura au~you curse at me
ho di lulu ulan~you are sought after
ho dohar paharuarhon diri~you can free yourself
ho ebati au ondeng~you just come to me
ho elek au aha~what are you persuading me?
ho gandeng tangan au~you take my hand
ho giot padalanhon marollok~you want to have intercourse
ho guit hu arbas~you touch me freely
ho habotoan manggabusi hu~you were caught lying to me
ho harang harang ido~you're the coral
ho hea tete salaoar~have you ever shit your pants?
ho hilalahon ma panghorhonna~you feel the consequences
ho hira au jogi~do you think I'm strong?
ho hira ho bagak~you think you're cool?
ho hira maridii hatop~Do you think taking a shower is fast?
ho hot boi pabalihon~you can still be contagious
ho hu lengse ra~I'll kill you
ho ingkon gabe tiruan~you have to be an example
ho isap pirapira hu~you suck my balls
ho isara rumondang bulan~you are like the moon
ho isi baoa asing~you have another guy
ho isi ondeng ulaulana~you just have work to do
ho jaha dohot sulingkit~you read carefully
ho jo ni mommonon~you used to be a snot
ho jolma rittik sabanua~you are the world's craziest
ho jongir tadinghon dirihu~you are cruel to leave me
ho jou au angkang~you call me brother
ho juhut bontar lumban~you are a villager
ho jungkat ho manuturi~you are evil you defend
ho lean ibana bonar~you give him encouragement
ho lobi sian bodat~you are more than a monkey
ho lompa di kode~do you cook at the shop?
ho lulu ma rongkapmi~you are looking for your soul mate
ho ma haholongan hu~you are my lover
ho ma manisia saridondon~you are a human being
ho ma panghandit tohonan~you are the lifter of dignity
ho ma pangisi rohahi~you are the fill of my heart
ho malo bahasa batak~you are fluent in Batak language
ho mambahen ahu longang~you amaze me
ho mamorluhon inganan marlinggom~you need shelter
ho mananda roha hu~you know my heart
ho manangko roha hu~you stole my heart
ho mangalalushon sopola marroha~you act without thinking
ho mangalupahon luhut hatami~you forget everything you said
ho manganju lambok obukhu~you gently stroke my hair
ho mangeur roha niba~you divert my mind
ho mangumma las pardompahanhu~you kissed my forehead warmly
ho maraekaek ou holong~you're good, darling
ho marnampuna manorhon hasonangonmu~You have the right to determine your happiness
ho marsiajar harom portibi~you learn to sink the world
ho mirdong so ho~you're stressed, keep quiet
ho modom olo dada~you sleep okay bye
ho modomma nunga borngin~you sleep late
ho mokmok songon gaja~you are fat like an elephant
ho mulak tu hutam~you go back to your village
ho muse di hurung~you're locked up
ho muse mambuha pangkilalaan~you are expressing your feelings
ho na herek bodat~you're the monkey monkey
ho na hu gunom~you're the one I'm drowning in
ho na mamatos sumisi~you started it. disbanded
ho naeng hu hophop~I will fight for you
ho naung huduru igit~have you cum?
ho naung manongoshon turgas~You have submitted your assignment
ho naung mardongan saripe~You are married
ho naung tubu toras~you've grown up
ho naung turgas risa~You have a philosophy assignment
ho ndada bistok mangelek~You're not good at persuading
ho ndada hea halupahonon~you are never forgotten
ho ndada hea marsala~you are never guilty
ho ndada isi pangalaho~you have no morals
ho ndada isi pidong~you don't have a bird
ho ndada pangke tahuluk~you don't wear a peci
ho ndang boi uba~you can't change it
ho ndang mangaririt karejo~you didn't apply for the job
ho ni amangamanghu olo~you are my husband, right?
ho ni bodat malua~you are a loose monkey
ho ni tarsongon bidadari~you are like an angel
ho ni tudos sibagur~you are like a frog
ho ni tulen jaua~you are originally from Java
ho nunga manjehei au~you have betrayed me
ho nunga manungkun songonon~you already asked this
ho on elat olo~You're envious, aren't you?
ho ondeng ose padan~you just broke your promise
ho orui jo ni~you reduce that first
ho pa lomo ulok~You like snakes
ho pa pistar bagas~you're good at it
ho pala birat sahali~you are very plump
ho panggeno parbogason hami~you ruined our relationship
ho panipu parjuji parmabuk~you drunken gambler cheater
ho puna ombak ndada~do you have a hoe don't you
ho pungkul sadia habobongot~what time do you come in?
ho ra dibasbas amanghu~do you want to be hit by my father?
ho ra hu tombom~do you want me to hit you?
ho ra ihut tumbuk~do you want to take up boxing?
ho ra padalanhon marollok~you want to have intercourse
ho ra saut pasanganhu~you want to be my partner
ho ra uarna aha~what color do you want?
ho rittik dungkonsa au~you are crazy except me
ho roa marlogu muse~You're bad at singing again
ho roa tudos bagudung~you are ugly as a rat
ho sada sadado nirohahu~you are the only one in my heart
ho sajoma modom parjolo~you just sleep first
ho sala mangondam jolma~You're threatening the wrong person
ho satorbang rampak au~you are the same age as me
ho simagomago godang leak~You are unemployed and have a lot of attitude
ho tama di tami~you are worthy of worship
ho tarbereng jogi diruar~you look strong on the outside
ho telsu hatuaon nuaeng~You're out of luck now
ho tingki jolohu holonghu~you are my future my love
ho tudos bodat marraungraung~You're like a dependent monkey
ho tudos pidong boruboru~you are like a pigeon
ho tung maol baio~you really suck bro
ho uba uba goar~you change change the name
ho unang hurang bapbap~don't be rude
ho unang ihut ardoanhu~Don't get involved in my business
ho unang jekjek musem~Don't be naughty either
ho unang marsusut ondeng~you just don't have sex
ho unang nagaor dison~Don't mess around here
ho unang nalahang torus~Don't be selfish all the time
ho unang sala sura~don't get me wrong
ho unang tuhu alusna~Don't answer seriously
ho upaupa sian tuhan~you are a gift from god
ho urupima jo au~you help me first
ho usa di dilam~you rub it on your tongue
hodar au ida ho~unclean I see you
hoding ama ama sa~especially his father's father
hodok mi jala tohap~Your sweat is a reward
hoji au pajumpang ho~I want to meet you
hojot malum inonghu asi~Get well soon, my dear mother
holan alani asi basabasana~simply because of his grace
holan boi manangisi siahapon~can only lament fate
holan eolna na dipatudu~only the style is shown
holan giot joujou ho~just wanted to call you
holan goarhu parpudi niroham~only my name is last in your heart
holan hamamago na isi~only losses exist
holan hamima maragamo silom~we are the only ones who are Muslim
holan ho ai nirohaku~you're the only one in my heart
holan ho na huhaholongi~only you I love
holan ho na huparsinta~you're the only one I ask for
holan ho pandaoni sa~you're the only healer
holan ma sabiji hapateon~just a certainty
holan manungkun nangkin au~I was just asking
holan manungkun sa au~just ask me
holan margait gait on~just kidding this joke
holan nasai tolap hu~that's all I can do
holan on endehononhu ardang~I just sing this hum
holan pala panaru panganon~just very delivery person
holan ra jolma matua~just want parents
holan ra mangalimbe ondeng~just wanted to let you know
holan sahalak anak partigatiga~just a merchant's son
holan siingoton na allong~only memories remain
holan sintap apulan borngin~just limited to evening entertainment
holan sintap mangalongangi mi~just admiring you
holan tarbereng sian margana~only visible from the surname
holan tuho do jinak~only you are tame
holan, tombal motor marudur~just cars lined up
holang marpahu tais papulikhon~the distance is too far apart
holangholang huta dalan bolus~between crossroad areas
holangholang iboto ingkon denggan~between brothers must be harmonious
holangna di radot holi~the distance is maintained by the bones
hole tampak laba rimpa~paddle simultaneously profit simultaneously
holit sahali ho anggi~You're so stingy little brother
holit sahali ho tigor~you're so stingy you're fair
holong ai imbar ugamo~love is a different religion
holong bangkit alani hasomalon~love arises from habit
holong do boi putik~darling, can you pick it?
holong hu isara kopi~my love is like coffee
holong ido tarsongon pogu~love is like gall
holong laos anture panghophopon~love does require sacrifice
holong martopak sambola tangan~unrequited love
holong mi sondang hasangapon~your love is the light of glory
holong na dongan saama~sibling love
holong na hu usung~the love I carry
holong na manaili arta~love that looks at wealth
holong na sar putik~love that broadcasts pluck
holong naeng manjumpanghon urat~love will find roots
holong ndang ingkon tarbalos~love does not have to be reciprocated
holong ni anture hapateon~love requires commitment
holong ni isara harotas~love is like paper
holong ra parbogason rosu~darling, I want to have sex
holong sadihari hita maredangedang~darling, when are we going on a trip?
holong urupi purun kodak~darling please turn on the camera
holonghi rampak balga rimasmu~My darling is as angry as you are
hombar tu gansi hatutubu~according to birth order.
hona pidom ho annon~you'll be in trouble later
hopal hita naung isi~our ship is here
hopal metmet ni tarhindat~the small plane lifted off
hopal na ditompangi nasida~the ship they were on
hophop au bagas tanganmu~embrace me in your arms
hopi diputik jadi didadang~The coffee is picked and then dried in the sun
horas aha habar masihol~hello how are you miss?
horas angkang muse aha~hello bro, what are you up to?
horas asi ho didia~hello darling, where are you?
horas au sian medan~hello I'm from Medan
horas holonghi aha habarmu~hello my darling how are you
horas katua muse aha~hello chief, what are you up to?
horas luhut bolas laok~hello everyone can join
horas, ulang lupa bona~congratulations don't forget the principal
horas, ulang lupa bona~congratulations, don't forget the origin
horbo di mangan boraspati~buffalo are eaten by lizards
horong na ndada pinahamat~people who are not considered
horong tutur na mangalean~group of relatives who give
hosinghon sangke puna au~turn mine over
hot bonar aganan heu~stay enthusiastic even though you are tired
hot bonar atup abatabat~stay motivated to face obstacles
hot bonar bagas pangurupion~remain enthusiastic in service
hot bonar dohot renta~stay enthusiastic and united
hot gabe dosen sioloan~remains a role model lecturer
hot gabe simor tartaon~remains a suppressed emotion
hot ma dilambung au~stay close to me
hot mangalongangi sada boruboru~still admire one woman
hot mangalongangi sada parompuan~still admire one woman
hot mardongan radot diri~stay friends, take care of yourself
hot marusaha dohot girgir~keep trying and enthusiastic
hot mudu au anakmi~keep guiding me your child
hot rap anak batak~stay with Batak children
hot renta dohot sada~remain compact and solid
hot ripe boi sirang~marriage: can get divorced
hot ro pa supingan~keep smiling
hot saep dohot benget~remain patient and steadfast
hot saut na umuli~still be the best
hot sonang pahehe ngolu~stay happy and lively
hot suping aganan talu~keep smiling even if you lose
hotang pe jadi ma~rattan too
hotma dongan sada on~steady, this friend
hotma medan aga tuho~keep the field proud of you
hotor sondot holi pudihu~shivers went up my spine
hotuk pintu tarlobi hian~knock on the door first
hu ae barangna mate~I think it's dead
hu ampin diri hu~I defend myself
hu antuk. olo ho~I'll hit you
hu balbal annon ho~I'll slam you later
hu bebe tarus mi~I squeeze your breasts
hu danggur ho annon~I'll throw you in later
hu dapothon dirim sonang~I find you happy
hu dapothon i sopo~I found it in the hut
hu duda annon babami~I'll mash your mouth
hu duda baba mi~I'll punch your mouth
hu dungdung rumondang bulan~I reach for the moon
hu giot hot punam~I want to remain yours
hu harat ma ho~I'll bite you
hu hurung biluk martapian~I locked myself in the bathroom
hu isap pirapira mi~I'll suck your balls
hu janggola ngingi ho~I'll pull your teeth
hu lomo dalanmu manghaholongihu~I like the way you love me
hu lotak annon ho~I'll stick it to you later
hu lotak baba ho~I'll cover your mouth
hu lotak ulu ho~I'll knock your head
hu malua dohot tulus~I let go sincerely
hu maribak bibir ho~I'll tear your lips
hu marpangande tu debatahu~I surrender to my God
hu matehon ho marsogot~I'll kill you tomorrow
hu muningan jo ibana~I asked him first
hu paima unungan mi~I'm waiting for your application
hu pararat par sa~I'll share his identity
hu pastap pipi mi~I'll slap your face
hu podomi ho annon~I'll sleep with you later
hu ponggolhon holi rungkungmu~I broke your collar bone
hu putik gitar hu~I strum my guitar
hu rase harang ho~I will eradicate your coral
hu ribak babami annon~I'll tear your mouth apart later
hu ribak ribak rohami~I tore your heart apart
hu sihol tinompa mi~I miss your creations
hu sipak annon ho~I'll kick you later
hu sipak ihur mi~I'll kick your ass
hu tagil ulu ibana~I cut his head
hu taktak luhut gunung~I climb all the mountains
hu tallik ulu ho~I'll hack your head
hu tami ho badia~I worship you holy
hu tami ho badia~I worship you noble
hu tami ho debatahu~I worship you my God
hu tombom musem ho~I'll hit you too
hu tombom pipi ho~I'll hit your face
hu tomu ramot ro~I welcome you
hu tongos gokhonna sa~Should I send the invitation?
hu tongoshon ma hepenghi~I will send my money
hu tumbuk annon babami~I'll punch you in the mouth
hu tumbuk ise babami~I'll punch your mouth
hu tunjang lonjan ho~I'm your lunge
hu tunjang lonjan ulum~I lunge at your head
hu undukhon sajoma ni~I'll just say yes
hudia au ingkon mangalualu~Where should I report?
hudia au naeng mangalualu~where am I going to complain?
hudia hira hira ibana~where do you think he is?
hudia lahona dongan nangkin~where did that friend go?
hudia muse au mangalualu~Where else can I complain?
hudia ndada mamalos tonahu~where didn't reply to my message
hudia tulangna ndada isi~where his uncle is not there
huduru aek tijur hu~my saliva comes out
huduru masuk songon mommon~in and out like snot
huduru mudar sian igung~blood coming out of the nose
huduru sian inganan marbahudung~come out of the place of asceticism
hugalmit ho annon bagas~I'll pinch you inside later
hugurat goarmu i rohahi~I wrote your name in my heart
huhaholongi ho satulus roha~I love you sincerely
huhaol ho bagas modomhu~I hug you in my sleep
huhilala rittik ho pa~I think you're crazy, right?
huhira ate jolma batak~I don't think they're Batak people
huhut apus dohot usa~while wiping and rubbing
huhut i sorong au~while being pushed by me
huhut manumpahi na marhahurangon~while helping the needy
huhut mida parau marlaiar~while watching the boat sail
huhut morot hian boho~while moving is very fun
huingot tongtong poda ama~I always remember your advice
huingot tongtong tona mi~I remember. always your message
hulhulan kaen i daging~roll of cloth on the body
hum ndang tanda au~can't bear to know me
humutur jo hita rap~let's sway together
hundul di bangku dalhop~sitting on a bench
hundul mamuhung galas moror~sitting in a circle spinning glasses
hundul marhusor denggal mundar~Sit around, straight, turn away
hundulma i sambola hu~sit next to me
hunsi imbaru ro nangkin~new key just arrived
hunsina au ndada boto~I don't know the key
hunsina holan hasabamon asi~the key is just patience, dear
hupaboa pe molo saut~I'll let you know if so
hupaima das ho sun~I'll wait until you're ready
hupaima ma ende sa~I'm waiting for the song
hupaima taliponmu annon borngin~I'll wait for your call tonight
hupaima tammat sikkola mi~I'm waiting for you to graduate from school
hupamate ma annon ho~I'll turn it off for you later
hupas ho sipargogo hami~Police, you are our help
hupastap ho annon olo~I'll slap you later
hupikkir hita sada marga~I think we are of the same clan
hupikkir ho boto lapatanna~I think you know what it means
hupikkir ho tongtong balang~I thought you were always loyal
hurang anju ho ou~you don't care enough
hurang antus au martarombo~I don't understand what I'm saying
hurang bapbap sahali ho~you're so rude
hurang denggan ni bibit~not good for sharp minds
hurang edang ho on~You don't have much of a picnic
hurang edang saut lihi~less picnic so slim
hurang edang tudos sa~less of a picnic like that
hurang hepenghi ra marubat~I don't have enough money to go for treatment
hurang jeges boni on~this seed is not good
hurang marsiajar ulan ulan~lack of learning manners
hurang morot tu hambirang~less shifted to the left
hurang nangkok salaoar mi~your pants aren't up enough
hurang orui jekjek mi~less naughty
hurang sirsir tak mi~your tone doesn't fit
hurang tutur ho ou~You're impudent, aren't you?
hurang tutur ho tokke~You're rude, boss
huroa hita ingkon maporus~maybe we should evacuate
huroa ibana ndada nengel~maybe he's not deaf
husuba manurat olap mi~I tried to write about you
husuba marpogo aganan naboritan~I try to survive even though it hurts
huta nasida tardapot porang~Their village was in war
huting horbo hambing lombu~cat buffalo goat cow
hutur rampak ibana tabo~rocking with him is delicious
i batahi suman horbo~whipped like a buffalo
i jomba saihur babiat~pounced on by a tiger
i kobun lambungna ido~in his neighbor's garden
i ma na masa~that's what happened
i paila luhut jolma~embarrassed by everyone
i patalak di ho~opened for you
i patalak di mi~opened for you
i pipi jahoba kristus~that's the face of the Lord Jesus
i tardapot aek timbung~there is a waterfall
i tiktik sarupa dua~two of them tapped
i tiktik sarupa imana~knocked on him
i ulaon parbogason dongan~at a friend's engagement event
ianakhon pala manghaholongi hamletna~bani really loves her boyfriend
iba do na pangke~the account he uses
iba do on asi~this is my account darling
ibana andorang manggotil eme~he is harvesting rice
ibana daongma parmahan parkarejo~he is not a hired shepherd
ibana dibalbali angkup amangna~he was beaten by his father
ibana dohot anggina tarnono~he and his sister fell asleep
ibana giot hamuna martumpol~he wants you guys to get engaged
ibana holan baoang saok~he's just a fried onion
ibana holan barani manginsak~he only dared to criticize
ibana holan manganturehon nasipni~he only cared about his fate
ibana hu bahen pidom~I caused him harm
ibana hum manggadis tu~he had the heart to sell to
ibana ingkon mandamosi mi~he must accompany you
ibana mamborothon panangko ido~he tied up the thief
ibana manaptap dirina sadasa~he washed himself
ibana mangalap tahi muse~he took the initiative again
ibana mangarahon au mardalan~he invited me to walk
ibana manghitiri angka hitir~he shivered in fear
ibana manuturi dirina sadasa~he defended himself
ibana marlojong di antaran~he ran in the yard
ibana marmangmang sagogo baja~he was as determined as steel
ibana marroha marpandoit do~did he mean to be sarcastic?
ibana mutu manggadis tu~he is willing to sell to
ibana na mangontapi au~he prevented me
ibana na ra dialo~he wants to fight
ibana nantuari tu sipujion~He went to Citra yesterday
ibana ndada boi manunjul~he can't massage
ibana ndada naeng tarida~he won't show up
ibana ni marguru jo~he was practicing first
ibana tarhatotong dirina sadasa~he amazed himself
ibana todoan umuli au~he is my best choice
ibanape dang mamintor porsea~he didn't immediately believe it either
iboto baoa sihahaan ina~mother's oldest brother
iboto beha habar ho~sister how are you
iboto na parasian tuhan~God's beloved brother
iboto parompuan na denggan~good sister
iburu roha on tuhan~God is jealous
ida gari martenju nasida~look at them even fighting
ida humaliang martuani ma~look around be grateful
ida kansing bajuna mapeut~See the buttons on his shirt are undone
ida ma mataniari tarlonop~look at the sunset
ida pangalaho sisolhot ho~look at your cousin's behavior
ida saotik mataniari ni~look at that little bit of sun
idia roha pangkilalaan hamu~where are your feelings?
idia tanda dohot sipujion~where do you know the image?
ido adongma pelean panutungan~it is a burnt offering
ido anggi au asi~is my dear sister
ido au batak simalungun~Yes, I'm Batak Simalungun
ido goarna manjamorehon ho~that's called outsmarting you
ido ho pandok nangkin~that's what you said earlier
ido holan manuk martahuak~it's just a rooster crowing
ido luhut ingkon disesahon~it all has to be abolished
ido maniop tangke balanga~he holds the handle of the cauldron
ido naeng mamalang ngolum~it will hamper your life
ido pe dipaberengbereng lua~he was allowed to run
ido ringgarung lete hatop~that's a fast chasing deer
ido tar ngalian nuaeng~he's a bit cold now
ido tarida bojok sangombas~he looked confused for a moment
ido tongtong mangagahon habagakonna~she always prided herself on her beauty
igung dalnat lomo rimas~flat nose likes to be angry
igung mi kaluar mudar~your nose is bleeding
igunghu on tangkas tihas~My nose is definitely deformed
igungna mangalumbahon parompuan ni~his nose reminded her
ihut au pudun jo~Come along... I'll dress up first
ijo ijo ido mangarade~green green is standby
ijo pe bulung salak~even green salak leaves
ila ila jumpa ibana~embarrassed to meet him
ila margam ho bahen~you are ashamed of your surname
ima manghail lobi dilopokhon~that fishing takes precedence
ima manghajongjonghon taradop au~that's my confession
ima nantuari disungkun ibana~that's what he asked yesterday
imana musem suang lumpu~he was also paralyzed
imbar pos ni roha~different beliefs
imbarna ulubalang di partahanan~The difference is that the commander is for defense
imbaru lima na hualusi~I've only answered five
imbaru olop naung jamita~Aplus has just lectured
imbaru ondeng soarana damo~just had a sweet voice
imbaru peak mamintor modom~just lay down straight to sleep
imbaru pungkul nasa on~it's just this hour
imbaru sabulan inang baju~it's only been a month, auntie
imbaru sae manghobas gareja~just finished cleaning up the church
imbaru sae pangir huroa~just finished shampooing maybe
imbulu imput au lomak~My hair is thick
ina au manghaholongi borum~Mom I love your daughter
ina au ndada mangaloas~my mother didn't allow it
ina au sihol dahopanmu~Mom, I miss your hugs
ina ho mangajar aha~What do you teach mom?
ina ido mangompa anakna~the mother was holding her child
ina lomo uarna hunik~Mom likes the color yellow
ina na hami holongi~our beloved mother
ina na manubuhon hu~the mother who gave birth to me
inana timbil bagak sajabu~his mother is the most beautiful in the house
inana torus manganju obukna~his mother continued to stroke his hair
inang baju beha baritana~auntie how are you?
inang baju parompuan pahompum~your granddaughter's aunt
inang ibana bodat dang~ma he's a monkey no
indahan marusean di hudon~rice spilled into the pot
indahan ondeng sopola lompan~just rice without side dishes
indonesia marsada rasip mara~Indonesia unites to eradicate the epidemic
inganan hundulan kareta angin~bicycle seat
inganan inganan parsatongkinan boa~public burial place
inganan na hita sonom~the place we long for
inganan na mansai jeges~very nice place
inganan rampak sahali targotap~the place is completely disconnected
ingkon dihaholongi sagok roha~must be loved wholeheartedly
ingkon do apala bangkomu~That's how you should be
ingkon do au aning~should I wait
ingkon do au manimuk~should I disappear
ingkon do au martolon~should I swear?
ingkon do marujung nuaeng~it should end now
ingkon godang sunggul diri~you have to be very self-aware
ingkon jalo pangalehonon tuhan~You have to accept God's gift
ingkon jongir bahen siparjehe~must be cruel to traitors
ingkon jotjot marende muse~I have to sing more often
ingkon ma ni sadalan~it has to be in line
ingkon malo paiashon musem~You have to be good at cleaning too
ingkon marsabam mangadopi sasudena~have to be patient in facing everything
ingkon marsabam mangadopi sasudena~have to be patient in facing everything
ingkon marsiajar asa boi~you have to learn, so you can do it
ingkon meam asa bagak~you have to play to be cool
ingkon parrohahon poda gurum~You must pay attention to your teacher's teachings
ingkon rapma hita modom~we should sleep together
ingkon saep olo diparalangalangan~You have to be patient when you're overseas
ingkon sikkola nomor sada~must be school number one
ingkon siram aek dali~must be poured with milk
ingkon sungkot alani boli~must be hindered because of dowry?
ingkon tartutup luhut ngingi~must cover all teeth
ingkon tombus durak ma~must be achieved, shame on you
ingot di inum tambarmu~remember to take your medicine
ingot ma dohot denggan~remember it well
ingot ma tuhan mi~remember your god
ingot saep musem marbatas~Remember, patience also has limits
inonghu anak medan ardona~My mother is a Medan child
inonghu dohot nanaeng hela~my mother and future son-in-law
inonghu na timbil huhaholongi~my most beloved mother
inumon sabotol sopola pasipasi~drank a bottle without any leftovers
inumonna naung ture amang~The drinks are available, sir
ipe taho saotik saotik~maybe a little bit
iring huriam masuk jabum~lead your people into your house
isara ri diombus alogo~like weeds blown by the wind
ise dison na parbiar~who here is scared?
ise dongan minum kopi~who is a friend who drinks coffee?
ise donganhu matua annon~who will be my old friend?
ise donganmu borhat tu~who are your friends going to?
ise donganmu marhatai ni~who is your friend talking to?
ise goar angkangmi ni~what is your sister's name?
ise goar donganmu nangkin~what was your friend's name?
ise goar haganjangon mi~what is your full name?
ise goar pungu ho~what is your full name?
ise hamuna na parmabuk~who are you drunks?
ise hundul lambung angkang~who is sitting next to you?
ise ise hamu dasi~who who are you tie
ise ma na hupuna~who has it?
ise mardandi hata mi~who's sulking? you said.
ise muse pandokma pandok~Who else. say say say
ise na bolus on~who is passing by?
ise na hona mental~who gets mental?
ise na mamboan panggang~who brought the roast
ise na manalahon mi~who blames you?
ise na manalipon ua~who called, please
ise na manggarar sude~who pays for everything
ise na manggosa mi~who hurt you
ise na mangorai mi~who forbade you?
ise na manompahon indonesia~who created Indonesia
ise na marjehe iboto~who betrayed you?
ise na naung manongos~who sent it?
ise na puna lolo~who has the desire
ise na ra dibapbap~who wants to get beat up?
ise na ra mangalap~who wants to pick you up?
ise na ra manumbang~who wants to donate?
ise na ra mardame~who wants to make peace?
ise na seat manukna~who cuts the chicken?
ise ondeng on ruasna~who are the members?
ise pareman sada on~who is this thug?
ise parenta ho marhatai~whose orders are you to talk to?
ise ulaning singkat nai~who could the replacement be?
isi abat i adaran~there are obstacles in the field
isi ae na allong~there is a feeling left behind
isi aha angkang baoa~what's wrong big brother
isi aha dohot hatahu~what's wrong with my language?
isi aha gaor loni~what's going on?
isi aha inanginangmu bori~What's wrong with your wife?
isi aha saritai ma~what's wrong? tell me
isi aha ulaning on~what's going on?
isi alai modom halakna~there but the person is sleeping
isi alimos na sihabunian~there is a hidden meaning
isi alo meam domino~there are opponents playing dominoes
isi angkanghu sisolhot ima~there is my biological brother, namely
isi ardang dohot sidalian~there is rhyme and reason
isi arta isi tondong~there is wealth, there is family
isi babiat nibagas jabuhu~there is a tiger in my house
isi bagas parbuena tongor~the contents of the fruit are dense
isi bonang bonangna musem~there are threads too
isi do panompang sa~are there any passengers?
isi godang holso soksok~there were a lot of upset complaints
isi habar sian purba~any news from the east?
isi handang di pudi~there is a fence at the back
isi hepeng ibana marhuaso~there is money he is in power
isi hepeng logam ndada~are there any coins?
isi hepeng tangkas banje~there's money, it's definitely in order
isi hepeng ulu tok~there's a headache
isi holang diholangholang hita~there is distance between us
isi hupas di dalan~there are police on the street
isi ina bagak bangkol~there is a beautiful mother... reluctant
isi jolma na mangajari~there are people who teach
isi jolma silom dison~there are Muslims here
isi kambona dan tubu~there are mushroom stems growing
isi labana nasida lao~it's a good thing they're gone
isi na andorang hansar~someone has diarrhea
isi na diula nangkin~something was done earlier
isi na gadis pinasa~someone sells jackfruit
isi na mananda sa~someone knows him
isi na monding do~has someone passed away?
isi na pere tarutung~there is free durian
isi na ra mangaririt~someone wants to apply
isi nomor mangir ndada~are there any beautiful numbers?
isi ombasna hita marjumpa~it's time for us to meet
isi on tading satonga~There's only half left
isi panangga nibagas jabuhu~there is a dog in my house
isi parbue sa dauk~the fruit inside is soft
isi pedan lulu pangondian~I have a friend looking for a lawyer
isi pidato olap haiason~content of the speech about cleanliness
isi salahu rap ho~I have something wrong with you
isi saridondon di igungmu~there's dirt in your nose
isi sondang sa ai~there's a light
isi tigatiga marata marsogot~there is a vegetable sale tomorrow
isi tukkar hepeng angkang~there is money exchange, bro
isi turgas angkup ho~you have additional duties
isi turgas ho nuaeng~you have a task now
isi turgas mi nuaeng~there's your job now
isian rumar sihil hulingna~empty drum gives loud sound
isina aha ondeng saripehu~What's in it, my wife?
itomu isi di son~your sister is here
jabir sahali ongkos on~This rental is very fussy
jabu dipauli angkup nasida~the house was built by them
jabu pusuk na bagak~beautiful peak house
jabu sa nahinaholongan loni~the king's house
jadi doho gade motor?~so you pawn the car
jadi ma dirim sahibulna~be completely yourself
jadi ma harohaon tuhan~God's will be done
jadima dolidoli na marhapateon~be a committed man
jadina monang manang ndada~will win or not
jadual au nari tongor~My schedule is still busy
jaga anggo ho langkup~Watch out if you are cheating
jaga annon dipamate ho~Watch out, it will turn you off
jaga di barobo hupas~Watch out for being caught by the police
jaga hansur hudon mi~Watch out for your pot breaking
jaga ho olo panangga~Watch out, dog
jaga isi na allong~Watch out, there's something left behind
jaga unang sala etong~watch out!!!! don't miscalculate.
jago do marbahasa batak~he's good at speaking Batak
jahoba hita na manggomgomi~our god rules
jahoba manggomgomi anak hinomit~God rules the people
jahoba na marhatohohon au~God justifies me
jahoba ro paluahon huriana~God came to save his people
jahoba sang pamiara ngolu~God is the keeper of life
jahoba siparmahan au lapatanna~jahowa siparmahan au meaning
jahoba sitompa na balga~God the great creator
jahoba, urupima, hehei iman~God please wake up recon
jahoba, urupima, sungguli iman~God please remind me
jala gogo tarik paredangedang~become a tourist attraction
jala ni molo boi~and that's if possible
jalang ma tanganhon ito~greet my hand
jalo asi anggulimanna amang~thank you for your words sir
jalo asi anggulimanna bagak~thank you for your beautiful words
jalo asi di haburjuonna~thank you for your kindness
jalo asi di rohana~Thank you for your attention
jalo asi ginjang baritana~thank you for the news
jalo asi ginjang hajujuronna~thank you for the honesty
jalo asi ginjang haporseaonna~Thank you for your trust
jalo asi ginjang pangalehonna~thank you for the gift
jalo asi ginjang pangurupionmu~Thank you for your help
jalo asi ginjang siingotonna~thank you for the memories
jalo asi ginjang siluana~thank you for the gift
jalo asi ginjang turgasna~thank you for the advice
jalo asi godang pangalehonna~thank you very much for the gift
jalo asi godang pangalehonon~thank you very much gift
jalo asi mandaoni siholhu~thank you for treating my longing
jalo asi natuatua hami~thank you our elder
jalo asi naung diontang~Thank you for being invited
jalo asi naung dipuji~Thank you for being praised
jalo asi naung mangalumbahon~Thank you for reminding
jalo asi naung mangarorot~Thank you for taking care
jalo asi naung pangantusion~thank you for understanding
jalo asi pangurupionmu dongan~Thank you for your help friend
jalo asi pangurupionmu iboto~Thank you for your help brother
jalo asi songkongan tangiangni~thank you for your prayer support
jalo asi soso sa~thanks for the advice
jalo asi tangiangni itohu~Thank you for your prayers my brother
jalo asi tata angkang~thank you papa brother
jalo asi tu uluan~thanks to the leadership
jalo au saut langkuponmu~accept me as your mistress
jama gomos ma di~hold on tight to
jama ma aras ni~hold the pole
jaman nuaeng naung sanggih~Nowadays it is sophisticated
jambar jama agong au~part of holding my charcoal
jambar turpuk na angkiningan~part of the previous verse
jambulan au ropang suda~my hair fell out completely
jamu ndang dope modom~herbal medicine still hasn't slept yet
janji da unang lao~promise me don't go
janji dang adong bada~promise no fighting
jea borngin samansam ranggiting~bala bornin a kind of bee
jeanai tarhilala panaru modom~Damn it's quite a bedtime
jeges di mangaranap roha~beautiful for contemplating the heart
jeges do annon luhut~it'll all be good later
jeges do inganan on~this place is good
jeges do tagion ni~that's a good bill
jeges gorbangan jambulan sa~good haircut
jeges hian pangidoanmu olo~Your request is very good, isn't it?
jeges hian soarana da~the sound is good, isn't it?
jeges loni salik mi~Your slander is good
jeges otik anggo marhatai~It's a little good when you talk
jeges sahali panangkasion hatahatana~Very good explanation of what he said
jeges sahali pangidoanmu olo~Your request is very good, yes
jeges saotik baba mi~your mouth is nice
jeges saotik pantas ho~you're good at talking a little
jesus adong ma panogu~Jesus is the guide
jesus adongma panogu ngoluhu~Jesus is my guide
jesus ampuna roha hu~Jesus is the owner of my heart
jesus sipargogo na balang~Jesus is a faithful helper
jo au hea laok~I've joined before
job balang tu tuhan~Job was loyal to God
jogi sa soara sillam~the sound of thunder was strong
jolma batak dia soaram~Batak people, where's your voice?
jolma batak marateate lambok~Batak people are soft-hearted
jolma birong didia ho~black people where are you?
jolma denggan na dihansiti~good people are hurt
jolma hita do ho~our person is you
jolma holan boi manuraki~one can only criticize
jolma jaua tarida musem~Javanese people show up too
jolma lagak diorai raterate~Handsome people are prohibited from being confused
jolma matua lam matua~parents are getting older
jolma mokmok pilatna metmet~Fat people have small dicks
jolma na lomo mangalean~people who like to give
jolma na maenhon gondang~person who plays drums
jolma na ndada padot~people who are not painstaking
jolma na pala huhasiholi~someone I really miss
jolma na timbil nalahang~the most selfish person
jolma namalo dohot sahala~educated and respected people
jolma ni malo mangalualu~that person is good at complaining
jolma ni tudos ulok~that person is like a snake
jolma on ambung alit~this person is easily offended
jolma on mamparhailahon ompung~this person humiliated the ancestors
jolma on muse sirarion~this person is in a meeting
jolma pangalului panganon hurje~people looking for fodder
jolma saep parasian tuhan~God loves patient people
jolma saep tambonna mamak~patient people have wide buttocks
jongir sahali mata ina~mother's eyes are very scary
jongirna dirim di ahu~how cruel you are to me
jongkas sahali utokutok mi~your brain is so cunning
jongkong di dalan ni~get in the way
jonok sa rampak parboniagaan~close to trade
jora ma ho margapgap~realize that you are lying
jorbut loni pumpe mi~Your doll is scary
jorbut sahali portibi on~this world is so scary
jorgong dengke sian bulu~bamboo fish trap
joro jahoba na ngolu~temple of the living God
jotjot dirimpu jolma batak~people often think of it as Batak
jotjot loni bada antus~there are often disagreements
jou angkang luhut hami~call all of us brothers
jou rampak au tutu~call me ulek
jugul loni sa on~naughty this time
juju panailian tu kristus~turn your eyes to Christ
juju rohami tu tuhan~turn your heart to God
juju tu opat odong~point in four directions
jungkat adong ma tihas~evil is nature
justeru ho na marenjak~In fact, you are the one who is ambivalent
kabupaten umuli adong ma~the best district is
kalapa na di hurhur~grated coconut
kalekale maradong di kalas~friends are in class
kalekale ndada mamorluhon on~guys don't need this
kambang ate marsineang kambang~flowers are not just any flowers
kambona somalna mambahen jambatan~stems usually make bridges
kansing baju ganjang jempek~short long shirt buttons
karejo di bandara surabaia~working at Surabaya airport
karejo nata karejo bagebage~real work complete work
karejo ndada bolas morongorong~you can't complain about work
karejo sa modom maos~he just sleeps all the time
karejo torus balbal holi~keep working hard
karejo unang saut ulok~work, don't be a snake
karejohonma na jala parkarejoanmu~do what is your job
karejona marsi danggur dangguran~the job is to throw each other
kareta au nunga ro~My train has arrived
kareta ho naung dibongoti~Your motorbike has been entered
katua hudia ari on~where is the chairman today?
kedanhu ho hum sahali~My friend, you are very brave
kedanhu na timbil kompak~my closest friend
kode kopi dohot panganon~coffee and food shops
kode kopi ompung doli~Grandpa's coffee shop
konsok pa pidongmu jo~Shake your bird first
kopi ae tiak hoda~horse urine flavored coffee
kue torsok pabutonghon dongan~delicious cake filling friends
kuliah on jo dipalese~This course has been completed before
labana au anak parompuan~Luckily I'm a girl
labu ma di sigor~gather in orange peel water which has a sharp taste and is bitter
lae rohami marsogot pagi~Lae how you feel tomorrow morning
lagak hian bajuna jeges~very handsome. the clothes are nice
lagak musem hu tingkir~I look handsome too
lagu tabo do ito~nice song auntie
lagut tu di pinggol~attached to the ear
laho dao tu parapat~go all the way to Parapat city
laho tuhor dengke jolo~I want to buy fish first
lalang ma tei rojan~Animal fertilizer found in pastures is really greedy
lam gabe lobi toras~increasingly becoming more mature
lam godang dosamu annon~the more sins you will have later
lam godang hurang hutingkir~the more and less I see
lam leleng lam sagang~it gets quieter and quieter
lam mamak dohot jumolo~getting wider and leading
lam mokmok dohot jumolo~getting fatter and leading
lam tarhatotong dohot amang~increasingly amazed by father
lam tedak langka doharmu~the more open the steps of your sustenance
lam tiurma tingki jolomi~the brighter your future will be
lam tua lakku tongtong~always more blessed & in demand
lambung ate sampulu dua~about not twelve
lamu balga dagingna annon~the bigger his body will be
lamu hobas bagas pangurupion~increasingly active in service
lamu matua lamu tenga~the older you get, the more sluggish you get
langit jeges ni targorga~the beautiful sky was engraved
langka dua tanggurung tangan~step two back hands
langka sada palak tangan~one palm step
lanjahon ulaula paraktek hita~bring our practice tools
lansim loni igungna ni~That nose is sharp
lao ho sian poso~you left early
lao ho tu jurang~go you to the mines planted against enemies and thieves
lao modom jo tokkin~I want to sleep for a while
lao modom unang mangalo~go to sleep, don't fight
lao tais tu parapat~go all the way to Parapat city
laoma tu an ebati~go there come
laos aha na sihabiaron~what is there to be afraid of?
laos au mulak marlojong~then I ran home
laos beha torsa mulana~that's how the story started
laos dungkon au disikkolahon~Indeed, that's why I was sent to school
laos holit sa ho~You're really stingy
laos ma palito on~that's what this lamp is
laos manopot ompung doli~then met grandfather
laos ndang dope tunduon~I'm not sleepy yet
laos ra i mansam~I'd like to have some variation
lapatan boru sangge lapik~the meaning of alas daughter
lapatan hata antuk antuk~the meaning of the word sleepy
lapatan hata di palambas~the meaning of the word is expanded
lapatan hata hadang parjolo~the meaning of the first article
lapatan hata juang bagas~the meaning of the word fight within
lapatan hata pareman medan~the meaning of the word thug in Medan
lapatan hata ranum bagas~the meaning of the word deep
lapatan hata siaha adongma~the meaning of the word sipolan is
lapatan hata tonggi jambu~the meaning of the word sweet guava
lapatan partanda mandera sisingamangaraja~The meaning of the symbol of the Sisingamangaraja flag
lapatan pistar bagas medan~intelligent meaning in Medan language
lapatan sian hata pandokma~the meaning of the word say
lapatan subang nai puang~The meaning of taboo is my friend
lapatan unte tutu mandailing~Meaning of crushed orange in Mandailing language
lapatanan bahasa huta medan~Medan regional language translation
lapatanan bibi bagas bangso~translation of bibi in Batak tribe
lapatanna aha amang bolon~what does it mean sir akbar?
lapatanna hata tarago simalungun~it means the word deceived simalungun
lapatanna paruarhon sian hagogotan~means freeing from distress
lapatanna somba jahoba debata~It means worshiping Jahowa Debate
lapati ho jo on~interpret this first
lapati ma nangkin boi~That means you can
lapik sa leleng loni~the basic language is old
lapo asing ungkap ndada~Are other cafes open or not?
las ni roha marhuarar~joy abounds
las roha au mambegesa~I'm glad I heard that
las roha au mambegesa~I'm glad I heard that
las roha dohot lungun~happy and sad
las roha mamereng ibana~nice to see him
laut sa balau daisdais~the sea is brush blue
lea on ndada taranju~this insult is unforgivable
lean holongmu dohot huasom~give me your love and your power
lebaran didia do ho~Eid where are you?
legan hian ho on~you are very stylish
lehengna jolma ro mullop~the behavior of people coming and going
lehengna tudos na gale~he acted like he was weak
lehonma asa naeng hulean~give and I will give
lehonma au sulusulu mi~give me your guidance
lehononhu alusan alai hudokhon~I gave the answer but I said
leleng hian hahapong modom~I went to sleep for a long time
leleng hian udur on~This queue is really long
leleng leleng buat arsean~it gets annoying for a long time
leleng muse ho manea~how long will it take for you to consider?
leleng sahali aekna mohop~the water was hot for a long time
leleng sahali aning nopember~It's been a long wait for November
leleng sahali bulan nopember~it's been a long time since November
leleng sahali tudos dakdanak~for a long time like a child
lelengna au di matau~I've been abroad for a long time
lemes olo tambon posoposo~smooth baby butt
lengket do baba mu~your mouth is good
lengse hamuna ma ni~slaughter you guys
lereng botari dohot ho~twilight bike and you
lete torus hepeng ni~keep chasing that money
liang saut jorbut panangga~I'm so scared of dogs
lima batis tarup seng~five pieces of tin roof
lima bulan raphon ho~five months with you
lima langka mangontapi samar~five steps to prevent infection
lingkitna tobal dohot marsuga~the skin is thick and prickly
loas au pangido urupi~may I ask for help
loas hela jolma batak~allow a Batak son-in-law
lobang punsu ni butuha~anal hole
lobi anture muse olo~even neater
lobi denggan au marpananginangian~I'd better listen
lobi denggan marhatai martoruk~it's better to speak modestly
lobi godang bolas ma~more is fine
lobi hobas mangalului hepeng~more active in making money
lobi jorbut sakku mahiang~more scary dry bags
lobi muse tu jolona~more so in the future
lobi sian timbona buhit~more than the height of the hill
lobi sodap martimbanghon dangdut~better than dangdut
logomlogomon ibana mamereng au~scared he saw me
loja anggo songonon torus~I'm tired of doing this all the time
loja au gaor torus~I'm tired of making noise all the time
loja gabe jolma benget~tired of being a patient person
loja gabe tersera sajo~I'm tired so it's up to you
loja heu heu hurbe~tired tired lethargic limp
loja hian anakmon oma~Your child is so tired, Mom
loja hian au rasa~I feel very tired
loja hian dohot ho~so tired of you
loja loja au bahen~I'm tired of making it
loja loja hubahen nabodari~I'm tired of doing it last night
loja mangadopi kuliah on~tired of facing this lecture
loja mangadopi sude on~tired of dealing with all this
loja nangkin mulak karejo~I was tired when I came home from work
loja olo marjuang sasadaon~I'm tired of fighting alone
loja saut jolma marbinereng~tired of being the attention person
lojana karejo ari on~tired of work today
lojana karejo sian jabu~tired of working from home
lok aek mata mangalus~let the tears answer
lok ma dohot angkang~it's up to you bro
lokma hita marsi manjalo~let us accept each other
lokma hita marsi pauliulian~let us complement each other
lokma sangajo laos dainang~so be it. It's on purpose, Mom..
lokma songoni, boasa huroha~let it be so, why apparently
lokma suman hire andurian~let it resemble hedgehog dandruff
lokmu, modomma nunga borngin~it's up to you, go to sleep late
lolo ngolu jolma godang~the livelihood of many people
lolo sahali jolma ido~that person really wants it
lomak loni hurum ni~those cheeks are fertile
lomak sahali hau mi~your tree is very fertile
lomo ateatem ma i~that's where you like it
lomo longang molo songonon~I'm confused when it's like this
lomo maniranghon haburukon jolma~likes to divorce people's bad things
lomo manjua molo dijalo~likes to refuse when asked
lomo margere ondeng ho~you just like to joke
lomom aha pe ni~whatever you like
lomom na ringkot tabo~What's important is that it's delicious
lomom sa hu tanggo~I like seeing you
lomona ho rap au~you like me
lomona rampak na tihas~I like the used one
lomos di mandalanhon sa~hesitate to run it
lompa manuk manang dengke~cook chicken or fish?
lompa marata bulung antirha~cook cassava leaf vegetables
lompalompa batak na tabo~delicious Batak cuisine
lompalompa jo sibuk babi~First cook pork
lompalompana nari isi ndada~is the food still available?
lompit baju botohon ganjang~fold long sleeves
lomuk lomuk pidong darapati~tame doves
longa nasabah ingkon dibalonghon~half the customers had to be thrown away
longo hian songon tanoman~as quiet as a grave
lonsam anak musem ditahi~the number of children is also planned
lonsam dietong dohot mamangke~The total is calculated using
lonsam ruas na mangadopi~number of congregations attending
lonseng masuk manghuling tangging~the entrance bell rang loudly
losok au halado ho~I'm too lazy to serve you
losok au mambegesa manghatai~I'm lazy to hear him speak
lotak ondeng molo jugul~Just slap it if you're stubborn
luangon loni hu ae~I think it's unlucky
luhut alani asi basabasana~all because of his grace
luhut anture parkaro meme~everything needs a mothering process
luhut bahasa au taban~I master all languages
luhut bahasa di gunahon~all languages are used
luhut boi gabe rasun~everything can be toxic
luhut boruboru naeng manghombar~all the women will come closer
luhut dipungka dohot manuani~It all starts with gratitude
luhut habir tahi tuhan~it all depends on God's plan
luhut hamuliaon sagi jesus~All glory to Jesus
luhut hasuharan isi pansidungi~all problems have solutions
luhut holan aropan nama~it's all just hope
luhut holan aropan nama~it's all just hope..
luhut isi di dirim~it's all in you
luhut itohu baea baea~all my brothers
luhut lojam ho pasiding~you get rid of all your tiredness
luhut marnatal hita karejo~all Christmas we work
luhut naung isi parantanan~everything is measured
luhut naung marjabu balatuk~all are married
luhut ni harohaon jahoba~it's all God's will
luhut on alani pambahenanhi~all this because of my actions
luhut pambahenan saut so~all efforts came to a standstill
luhut puna mi sega~everything you have is broken
luhut ragam pungu ture~all complete types are available
luhut ro ganti marsoring~everything comes and goes
luhut rohana anggiat siat~May all his wishes come true
luhut sa dipadalan sadasa~everything was done by myself
luhut sa ni marmula~it all started
luhut tangkas isi parsaulianna~there must be wisdom in everything
luhut tarpasiat angkup tuhan~everything is fulfilled by God
luhut tokke rampak ondeng~all agents are the same
luhut ulaon mamorluhon ali~all work requires reward
lulu aha panangga tunggal~looking for a male dog
lulu hepeng bahen gararan~looking for money for a deposit
lulu nanget nanget ondeng~just search slowly
luluan raksa sada suhat~seek one measure of knowledge
lungun hu sura asi~I think it's sad, darling
lungun loni idaonhu ma~I'm sad when I see it
lungun loni idaonhu on~I'm sad when I see this
lungun sahali sungkot hasiputon~I'm so sad that I'm busy
lungun tarhirim dohot hanataan~sad and disappointed with reality
lungunan rohahi sopola hamuna~My heart is lonely without you
lupa nangkin au manuhorna~I forgot I bought it earlier
ma ho natanata sahali~you're so tacky
ma jalang jalang mu~you're welcome
ma lapak jo saotik~hit it a little first
ma lapak puang goar~is the sound of a slap or blow, a friend's name
ma mandilat ipar i~just lick across it
ma par gundul mu~is a complement to your bald perpetrator
ma sambil i porda~the net is the handle
ma torus hudia hunsina~So where's the key?
maap au repot hasian~sorry I'm busy darling
maaphon au au sangsisangsi~Forgive me. I hesitate
maaphon au olo ama~I'm sorry, father
maaphon au salpu holong~I'm sorry I already love you
maaphon au salpu manghaholongi~I'm sorry I already loved you
maaphon helam on ina~forgive your daughter-in-law, mother
maapma anggo ndada maratur~sorry if it's out of order
mabalu ho imbaru boto~widowed you just found out
mabiar ditutup do au~I'm afraid it will be closed
magigi au bege hatahatam~I'm disgusted to hear what you say
mago sakti rohani i~lost his heart
mahilolong muse bulan jolo~postpone it again next month
malau pe dang dope~clan or not yet
male sahali baba bou~so hungry, smelly mouth
malua dohot ingkon tingkos~free, and must be sporty
malua sian pintu kalas~escape the classroom door
malungun di ise do~who do you want?
malungun naung di paolooloi~longing has been followed
mamartida ondeng karejo mi~just deny your work
mambahen mi tipul bonar~makes you discouraged
mambahen ondok be hosahu~making the rhythm of my every breath
mambege lagu rohani do~listen to spiritual songs?
mambege lagu rohani ma~listen to spiritual songs
mambege soara galumbang aek~hear the sound of water waves
mambias dohot manghaholongi saporluna~hate and love as necessary
mamboan anak tu huta~take the child to the village
mamboan roha na hiang~brings a barren heart
mamboan roti dohot sopi~brought bread and wine
mambur meaman tigor hu~scattered around my fair toy
mameakhon buku dohot tingkos~put the book correctly
mameakhon gota di ranting~put the sap on the twigs
mameakhon mulak buku ni~put the book back
mamereng ho golom botohonna~I saw you holding his hand
mamereng tinambor tu banda~pilgrimage to the grave
mamiltik gitarhu dohot marende~strumming my guitar and singing
mamintor dabu tabo morana~it immediately fell deliciously rich
mamintor di tongos ramuan~sent the recipe straight away
mamintor dilapatani panurat batak~directly translated by Batak writers
mamintor durus roha angkang~my brother's heart immediately melted
mamintor hu tunjang botohonna~I immediately kicked his hand
mamintor hu tunjang patna~I immediately kicked his feet
mamintor jomba ondeng sipanganonna~just pounce on the food
mamohul gomos jarijari mi~hold your fingers tightly
mamorluhon tumpak jolma asing~need help from others
mamparbuehon dos ni roha~produce an agreement
mampartahanhon bingkas par diri~maintain basic self-identity
mamudun parbogason na targotap~reconnect broken connections
mamuji dohot marsomba tuhan~praise and worship God
managam mulak di tingkina~looking forward to returning in time
manambai boruboru tudos ho~adding women like you
maname eme sasara marrentaan~planting rice simultaneously
maname eme tubu duhut~planting rice grows grass
maname opat batu parbue~plant four fruit seeds
maname simarata kobunna sadasa~grow your own vegetable garden.
manampilhon halibutongan di roha~displays a rainbow in the heart
manamuei tamue mamahe talam~entertain guests using a tray
manang hamu nunga manolsolina~have you regretted it?
manang hamu on nata~are you real?
manang ho giot balu~do you want to be a widow
manang ho imbaru pangir~have you just washed your hair?
manang ho musem manghaholongihu~do you love me too
manang ho naung marhamulian~are you married
manang ho puna angkup~do you have a partner
manang ho ra salimut~do you want a blanket
manang ibana rongkaphu tuhan~is he my soul mate? God
manang isi tongosan muse~are there any more posts?
manang jahoba mangose janjina~Did Allah break his promise?
manang ni tailihon ende~is that a song lyric?
manang porot dohot magodo~Is it related to the disappearance?
manang sasudena nunga ro~has everyone arrived?
manang sotung naung hea~Or maybe it's already happened...?
mananggo babi di huta~slaughtering pigs in the village
manangianghon sada rampak asing~pray for each other
manangihon ardang ende batak~listening to the humming of Batak songs
manangisi siahapon di matau~lament the fate of being abroad
manangkup dengke tu ambar~catch fish in the pond
manarehon sada na bongak~prepare something great
manaripari tao manaripari samudora~across the lake across the ocean
mandanggurhon hailna tu binanga~threw his fishing rod into the river
mandapothon saihur dengke balga~catch a big fish
mandasdas badanna sasara marrentaan~move their bodies at the same time
mandasing hasalaan jolma asing~measuring other people's mistakes
mandodo naeng sajago ni~I thought it would be that great
mandok mauliate bulan agustus~say thank you in August
mandompakhon di ahu aha~. turned to me. What
mandosdos hu mamereng ho~I'm bored looking at you
mandungohon hami marsogot manogot~wake us up tomorrow morning
manegai ende songon ni~ruining the song like that
mangabuk aek di huduru~, urging the water to come out
mangabuk engkelhu di huduru~forcing my laughter to come out
mangabuk ondeng ulaula ho~just force yourself to do your work
mangaduk inganan paranginanginan mi~repair your resting place,
mangaehon susa lungun parungkilon~feel hardship, sadness, struggle
mangaehon ungkil mandohoti tumpak~feeling, suffering, participation, help
mangagohon dohot manghelhulhon ondeng~just annoying and annoying
mangahap di oto otoi~feel like I'm being fooled
mangahap dirina jolma mardosa~feels like a sinner
mangahap geok manang biar~feeling ticklish or scared
mangahap sipaduruon pedan sadasa~feel alienated by your friends
mangahap tuhan ndada tigor~feel that God is unfair
mangahon ae sasara sorbop~brings a sudden feeling
mangahon las ni roha~brings happiness
mangahon pasupasu manang bura~bring blessing or curse
mangajari unang das mamurai~educate, don't curse
mangalangka ndang ingkon hatop~You don't have to walk fast
mangalap gogo dohot tuak~rest with palm wine
mangalean sipanganon na rade~provide food
mangaligi sada sian hamuna~check something out of you guys
mangallang na boi digagat~eat what is edible
mangaloas sikkola di kota~allowed schools in the city
mangalojai ndada ra dipamaol~make it difficult, don't want to make it difficult
mangalompa dengke nibagas poti~cooking fish in a chest
mangalompa gadong di dapur~cooking sweet potatoes in the kitchen
mangalopi pasupasu marhitehite tangiang~ask for blessings through prayer
mangalului dengke di binanga~looking for fish in the river
mangalului masala anak on~look for this child's problem
mangalului nanaeng pandongani ngolu~looking for a potential life partner
mangalului parkarejoanna hian au~I'll look for a job first
mangalului parkarejoanna jo au~I'll look for a job first
mangalului pedan saumur ngolu~looking for a friend for life
mangalus baba mi ni~answer your mouth
mangalut musem sala sada~massaging is also one
mangamini dohar pasidunghon sinamago~Forgiving can solve problems.
mangan aha annon dongan~What are you going to eat later, friend?
mangan arian jolo pe~just have lunch first
mangan arian pangke lomang~Lunch with lemang
mangan babi laok solop~eat pork mixed with sandals
mangan ho joring ni~eat that bastard
mangan jo roti sa~eat the bread first
mangan la ubat ni~eat the medicine
mangan ma dodak ni~eat the bran
mangan ma tompu ni~eat it
mangan mangan bibi hita~eat eat our ducks
mangan ndada marsadi sadi~eating doesn't stop
mangan pisang saok nangkin~just ate fried banana
mangan rap angkup karejo~eating with colleagues
mangan roha disaor holong~eating heart mixed with love
mangan roha susa dipature~Eating hard to control
mangan tangkurak nuaeng ale~Eat a skull now okay?
mangana olo ama ina~watch out, ladies and gentlemen
mangangguk au mamereng ibana~I cried when I saw it
mangangguk au manangihon loguna~I cried listening to the song
mangangguk batinhu naporsuk ngoluhu~I cried inside, my life wasted
mangangguk di suhisuhi tingki~crying in the corners of time
manganna aha ho nangkin~what did you eat?
manganna rampak rampak asi~eat it together, darling
mangantusi alai dang jago~understand but not good at it
mangarade mangadopi ardo unjun~prepare for exam questions
mangarahon anduhur inum tuak~invite the turtledove to drink palm wine
mangarahon di marbada hape~inviting him to fight apparently
mangarahon hita di marsuraksurak~invites us to cheer
mangarahon marjanji dohot hamlet~ask out on a date
mangaramoti eme mangalai pidong~guarding rice keeps birds away
mangaramoti holang sian harungguan~keep your distance from crowds
mangaramoti parsadaan dohot hasadaon~maintain unity and integrity
mangaranap dohot sip longo~ponder and remain silent
mangarekrek bilolangon aning padan~excruciatingly anxious waiting for an appointment
mangarihon roha dohot sipareakan~have aims and objectives
mangarihon sisik na marsuga~has prickly skin
mangarihon suga na pinsur~has sharp spines
mangarindanghon dohot parpintoron roha~prove with sincerity
mangarorot anak baea baea~raising boys
mangarorot dohot pabalgahon hita~caring for and raising us
mangasta torus ulaula ho~continues to insult your work
mangatasi portibi hu on~beyond my world
mangatasi ulubalang manggulut kota~beyond the hero captured the city
mangendehon parhorasan sian tuhan~sing of salvation from God
mangetong gararan partigatiga danakna~calculating the young entrepreneur's deposit
manggandeng siingoton tu ho~holding memories for you
manggeleng upir alani lehengna~shook his head because of his behavior.
manggondit pasaorhon mamboan marsurasura~limit blending brings imagine
manggora huhut longa gorgor~shouted while half-breathing
manggora mardeka manang mate~shouting freedom or death
manggotil hurumhu dohot lambok~pinched my cheek gently
manghagigihon tondimi na parbadia~away from your holy spirit
manghaholongi dua roha huhut~love two hearts at once
manghaholongi ho sopola sadi~love you endlessly
manghaholongimu adong ma halomoanhu~loving you is my wish
manghajongjonghon hinamago jolma sintong~declares the misfortune of the righteous
manghajongjonghon sada sopola hatiuron~express something without clarity
manghatahatai rap ompung boru~talking with grandma
manghatahon ramot dohot tangiangni~congratulate and pray
manghatai jo ho dison~talk first, you're here
manghitiri luhut daging on~shivering all over this body
manghunti timbo arga diri~uphold self-respect
manghunti timbo pardongan saripeon~uphold family
manghutur sarupa ise ho~shake who you are
mangido tambing tu hoda~ask the horse for a horn
mangihot paduahon bola dingkan~binding on both parties
mangihut tu harohaon tuhan~according to God's will
mangingani be suhisuhi nagari~inhabit every corner of the country
manginona mamorsan pamarai sasadasa~I feel like I'm carrying the burden alone
manginum jus asa las~drink juice to keep it warm
manginum tuak ondeng au~I just drink palm wine
mangisi lambang bagas tondihu~fill the void in my soul
mangoloi pigapiga hatontuon bangko~comply with several customary provisions
mangoloi uhum salpu bolus~obey traffic rules
mangoluma bagudung dohot ulok~live mice and snakes
mangoluma dohot dalanmu sadasa~live your own way
mangoluma dohot patoruhu roha~live with humility.
mangoluma songonna ingkon do~live as you should
mangoluma tudos kareta api~live like a train
mangongkal raksa raksa imbaru~explore new knowledge
mangonjar manggalang mangalean mudumudu~encourage support provide guidance
mangopi asa tiur portibi~drink coffee to light up the world
mangopi jo asa bollang~drink coffee first so you can wake up
mangorui mamalang torus pambalian~reduce/inhibit the rate of transmission
manguba ngolu sian nuaeng~change your life from now on
mangudurhon ansiat panglima porang~lead as warlord
manilik dosa tingki lompo~looking at past sins
manimbuknimbuk ruas siulubalang ari~increases the earth's temperature
manindanghon tungkol dua sa~stand up the two forks
maningkir tu jabu tokke~visit the boss's house
maniroi hagunaon golang par~Explain the use of identity bracelets
manisia denggan na disuru~good man who was sent
manisia dijalo di mangaramoti~humans are asked to maintain
manisia loak godang legan~stupid people have a lot of style
manisia mangolgap ijurna sadasa~humans swallow their own saliva
manisia mansogohon pambahen guntur~humans are annoying troublemakers
manisia na ndada peam~unskilled human
manisia panangga ndada marutok~brainless dog people
manisia tinompa tuhan asing~humans created by another god
maniuk sandok bohi au~caressing my whole face
manjagai ibana sian mula~watching him from the start
manjalo anggo boi dipasahat~accept it if it can be conveyed
manjalo pangidoan mansam gombaran~accept orders for various paintings
manjalo rodo hadengganon tuhan~accept the coming of God's goodness
manjujui tumpak tingkos situjuon~Direct assistance to the right target
manogot manogot isi hagaoron~In the morning there was a commotion
manogot manogot naung simor~This morning I was emotional
manogot on pala logo~this morning is very bright
manogot on udan doras~this morning it rained heavily
manogot unang lupa mandungohon~Don't forget to wake up in the morning
manolang alai losok manungkun~bothered but lazy to ask
manolang i pangkilalaan hu~it bothers me
manompang poto ondeng jo~just take a photo first
manondang lung banua rea~illuminate the universe
manontong ma di hu~stay with me
manopoti rongkap sian tuhan~meet your soul mate from God
manortor metmet di jabu~little dance at home
mansam di harangan hutingkir~like I looked in the forest
mansam dia magohon ila~How to get rid of shame?
mansam jago loni hutingkir~Looks like I'm good at it
mansam jolma sina lilu~like perverted Chinese
mansam na ginagat lombu~like cow dung
mansam portibi puna mardua~It's like the world has both
mansam portibi ugasan mardua~It's like a world that belongs to the two of them
mansogohon sahali kalekalehu on~This is really annoying my friends
mantan au dibuat pedan~My ex was taken by a friend
mantan na nari diingot~an ex who is still remembered
mantan pupus ni tondihu~ex-lover
manuhor godang do hepeng~buy a lot of money
manuhor mangan hita jo~buy our food first
manuhor pa au halung~buy me a necklace
manuhor sambal hita jo~buy our chili sauce first
manuhor susu ni biang~buy the dog's milk
manuk di toru jabu~chicken under the house
manuk tunggal ni martahuak~the rooster crowed
manukna ndada dohar dipatalu~His cock can't be beat
manumtum ualu parbue jambatan~stringing together eight bridges
manungkun ho ondeng au~just ask me
manurat mulak turpuk bibel~Rewrite Bible verses
manurinurihon bitik karejo rampak~share collaborative experiences
manusia dang mangahap marsala~people don't feel guilty
manutu tambon manghurbit panggul~rubbing your butt shaking your hips
manutup sirarion sirarion sihabunianhu~close my secret meetings
maol loni di torkan~it's hard to guess
marabur bintang na tiur~studded with bright stars
maradi diri sian tehnologi~take a break from technology
maradi ma ho bolis~stop you devil
maradi ma ho tois~stop being rude
maradi ni mansaima mangalojai~rest is very tiring
maradi sonari naung borngin~rest now it's late
maradong di nangkohan nangkohan~is on the slope
maradong i nagari turiturian~was in a fairy tale
maralo tu ajimat hu~opposite to my talisman
mararga poda damang inangmi~your mother and father's advice is valuable
marasal sian patoruhu roha~comes from humility
marasal sian tano parbadaan~comes from disputed land
marata botik dohot sambal~papaya and chili sauce
marbangko bagas bongka tartontu~talented in something
marbingkas torsa sian jolmajolma~based on stories from people
marbogasma dohot ahu bagak~marry me beautiful
marbogasma dohot au asi~marry me darling
marbunga roha dongan hu~my friend's heart blossoms
mardalani alai tu pandan~take a walk but to Pandan
mardalanma sopola mandabuhon alo~walk without knocking your opponent down
mardingat adong do pirus~considering the presence of the virus
mardingat luhut panghophopon dainang~remembering all my mother's sacrifices
mardohar mangarihonmu ansiat pasanganhu~lucky to have you as my partner
mardongan saripe rap mi~have a family with you
mardongan unang marsi mangaraphon~friends don't expect each other
mardosa au molo songoni~I'm guilty then
mardua mangatim ummaon ombun~both enjoy the dew kiss
marende i borngin ari~singing at night
marende jo ma hita~Let's sing first
marende mi gok boban~Your singing is full of load
marga batak manjangkit pining~the Batak clan climbs the areca nut
margahu tingki jolo hu~My surname is my future
margana au ndada boto~I don't know his surname
marganda umur marganda daldal~getting older, getting gloomy
marganda umurmu olo ina~You're getting older, Mom
margogoihon parbogason panggadisan dohot~strengthen sales relationships with
marhalado dohot sagok roha~serve wholeheartedly
marhatai na oloma ho~speak the truth
marhilala ra tete au~I feel like I'm going to defecate
marhilala saut jolma pinjil~feel like a stranger
marhua ho di medan~reach you in the field
marhua namar kalimantan on~What are you doing on the island of Kalimantan?
marihut on au tongoshon~I sent the following
marjabu balatuk rap mi~married with you
marjuang dang mida omo~struggling to see no results
marlakku ma sapatutna katua~act like a boss
marlakku risi tu pedan~be rude to friends
marlambas andora ma hita~let's be tolerant
marlapatan ardo taralusi sala~means the question was answered incorrectly
marlapatan ho musem bodat~means you are also a monkey
marlapatan laos pangido dipamate~That means it's asking to be turned off
marlapatan marsogot meam olo~Does that mean we'll play tomorrow?
marlapatan nari sahuta hita~That means it's still in our village
marlapatan sian panataon targora~the meaning of the statement.
marlas ni roha manomunomu~rejoice to welcome
marlinggom jo i bara~take shelter under it first
marlinggom ma tokkin ondeng~just take shelter for a moment
marlingkit tobal dohot marsuga~thick-skinned and prickly
marlobian semi sintuhu tupa~excessive. semi-formal perhaps
marlojong marsiletean di hauma~running around in the rice fields
marluga huhut tu jae~rowing while going downstream
marmansam ragam hita manisia~the diversity of us humans
marmansam ragam tihas manisia~various kinds of human nature
marminggu parheheon tuhan jesus~worship of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus
marmudar mudar roha hu~my heart bleeds
marmudumudu parsikkola na timbo~guiding students
marmula sian porang hata~starting from a war of words
marmusik i borngin ari~music at night
marnabang, manggorbang, manukur jabut~shave the mustache
marnabang, manggorbang, manukur janggut~shave the beard
marningot dainang mi ni~remembering your mother
marningot jo tingki salpu~reminisce about the past
marningot na naung salpu~remembering what has passed
marningot tingki salpu sa~reminiscing about his past
maroma baoa na lagak~thousands of handsome men
marontak pusupusuhu mambege baritam~My heart throbbed hearing your news
marpadan di ndada margapgap~promise not to lie
marpadanma di hu damang~promise me son
marpadanma di tongtong balang~promise to always be faithful
marpadanma hot rap au~promise to stay with me
marpahu godang bagian sipanganonna~too many portions of food
marpahu hansit di diingot~it hurts too much to remember
marpahu hansit di dituriturihon~it hurts too much to tell
marpahu hansit nandigan dituriturihon~it hurts too much to tell
marpahu i jotjot disaritahon~too often disappointed
marpahu jorbut dohot jongir~too sadistic and cruel
marpahu menak mamahe mandar~too comfortable to wear a sarong
marpahu pambarani di mambuat~too brave to create
marpahu tobok peresiden hita~our president is too innocent
marpambahenan denggan marboras denggan~doing good bears good fruit
marpangeolma une dohot parsorionmu~style according to your situation
marpungu di masi mandahop~come together to embrace each other
marpungu di tano ranto~gathered in overseas lands
marragamragam tanggo mata modom~various kinds of sleeping eyes
marraungraung di urat burbur~hanging on rotten roots
marrupa suhisuhi dohot rundut~square and complicated
marsabam saep paimahon ibana~patiently patiently waiting for it
marsabarma anggi marsabarma managam~be patient, sister, be patient, wait
marsada mangalangka pareakhon hadumaon~unite towards prosperity
marsak hian di jabu~really bored at home
marsak loni dipandokoni pe~it's hard to even say
marsak parsadarian di jabu~late all day at home
marsambola naga baga papos~splitting itself in two halves the legendary serpent hopes of reassurance
marsarita ahape rap ahu~talk to me about anything
marsi manungkun dohot mangalimbe~ask and tell each other
marsi pagogohon dohot marsi~mutually reinforcing and mutual
marsi pajagarhon dohot pasangaphon~mutual respect and appreciation
marsi pasangaphon dohot pajagarhon~mutual appreciation and respect
marsi tarbahen sian bulu~mutually made of bamboo
marsiadu lumba di hadengganon~compete for good
marsiadu rap mamuji tuhan~race together to praise God
marsiajar di simpang di~learn at the intersection on
marsiajar do simpang di~learn about intersections
marsiajar ma lapatan hangoluon~learn the meaning of life
marsiajar tu panobangon marhapateon~learning towards committed maturity
marsiallangan roha dohot ahu~compete with me
marsinondang adong ma ias~brilliant is clean
marsitijur batu dohot barsion~spitting stones and sneezing
marsitiop porhot di aropan~hold on to hope
marsiulaon ronda ari on~on picket duty today.
marsogot alapi ma au~pick me up tomorrow
marsogot hita tujabu tulang~tomorrow we go to the bone house
marsogot hita uduti marnonang~tomorrow we will continue chatting
marsogot ho naung tardidi~tomorrow you will be baptized
marsogot hona batu ho~tomorrow you'll hit a stone
marsogot hu ebati ho~I'll come to you tomorrow
marsogot huboan hepeng sa~I'll bring the money tomorrow
marsogot husungkun tu jolma~I'll ask someone tomorrow
marsogot ma molo ingot~tomorrow if you remember
marsogot manogot hamuna hasasahat~You'll arrive tomorrow morning
marsogot pajumpang guru guru~I'll meet with the teachers tomorrow
marsogot pesta hami inang~tomorrow is our party, mom
marsogot raya hamuna lao?~tomorrow you will go
marsogot senen boaboa omo~Tomorrow Monday the results will be announced
marsogot tu tolping hita~tomorrow to our cliff
marsogot tuhor roti tolu~tomorrow buy three loaves of bread
marsogot unang tarlambat da~Don't be late tomorrow okay?
marsogotma hita ida muse~tomorrow we'll see again
marsomba tuhan di gareja~worship God in church
marsuru hu di lao~told me to go
martabuni di hosing somak~hiding behind a bush
martangiang asa ganjang bogasna~Pray for a long relationship
martapian i aek timbung~bathe in a waterfall
martapian kambang jo ho~take a flower bath first
martapian la asa sogar~Take a shower to be fresh
martarombo aha la au~what am I saying?
martaru ngolu di dalan~risking your life on the road
martata au ida sa~I laughed when I saw it
martata sa jeges tutu~his laugh is really good
martata suping manatap hami~smiling at us
martata supingma lupahon lungunmu~smile, forget your sadness
martimbanghon ari na pintor~than an honest day
martimbanghon mangadangi ndada ringkot~rather than wandering around unimportantly
martimbanghon mangangguk jeges mengkel~instead of crying it's better to laugh
martimbanghon pandapot godang jolma~than many people think
martimbanghon pandapot jolma godang~than the opinion of many people
martimbanghon roha na pintor~than an honest heart
martoruk di ginjang buhit~low on the hill
martuani nari di lean~grateful to still be given
martubi timbo sahali ho~you are very tall
martubi tois sahali ho~You're acting so arrogant
martugan jo tu batak~Switch first to Batak
martumbuk hita ra ho~boxing we want you
marulaon hinan ma olo~Let's talk first, okay?
marumur lima ratus taon~five hundred years old
marusaha mangaduk hangoluon tondongna~trying to improve his family's life
marusaha saleleng nari hipas~try as long as you are healthy
masa di suru tutung~time to burn it
masala na bangkit alani~problems that arise because of
masalana au ndada boto~The problem is I don't know
masalana ndang adong hepeng~the problem is there is no money
masam mana di ito~How do you think about a man's greeting to a woman's sibling?
masi mangauhon masi mangolophon~agree with each other, support each other
masihol au inang tailihon~miss me mom lyrics
masihol badanmu na las~miss your warm body
masihol ise hira hira~Who do you think I miss?
masihol karaoke ende on~miss the karaoke of this song
masihol landit sa ter~miss the slippery asphalt
masihol ra i anju~I miss being petted
masihol rampak gelleng gellenghu~miss my children
masin otom tarrahut tali~rope tied planing machine
masuk musem hutahu urupi~also enter my village Galang
masuk pandita dipudi panortor~enters the priest behind the dancer
mata hail sa nunga~the hook has
mata ho sa ihur~your eyes are tails
mata hu mondok loni~my eyes are sleepy
mata manginona sapot sahali~the eyes feel very tight
mata nasida manerbeng hu~their eyes glanced at me
mataniari na au jongkong~the sun that I block
mataniari nari margobar ombun~the sun was still shrouded in clouds
mataniari ndang dope binsar~the sun hasn't risen yet
mataniari tung pala mandoit~the sun was really hot
mate ho hubahen annon~I'll kill you later
mate ho ngorngor tano~you die slowly
mate linop tu laut~died by drowning in the sea
mate ma pauseang lapatan~mate ma grant meaning
matehon masin motor hamu~turn off your vehicle's engine
matehon palito ni pangolu~turn the light off turn it on
matema au anggo songonon~I'll die like this
matua di ginjang galapang~old on wheels
mauliate di injamon bajuna~Thank you for the loan of the clothes
mauliate godang guru,santabi maggarai~Thank you very much, I'm sorry to disturb you
mauliate guntur na burju~thank you diligent fuss
mauliate ma di pusat~thank you for the center
mauliate nnunga buhai manghaholongihu~Thank you for starting to love me
mauliateh tuhan tu marbaurbauron~thank God for smoothness
meam kartu taru monjap~playing squatting cards
mebat tu jabu tondong~visit the family's house
medang manorui pedan donganna~going around visiting his friends
medangedang tu odong purba~wandering eastward
mellep ate marlapatan mintop~dim does not mean extinguished
melos pidong ho annon~wither your bird later
memori di jabu on~memories in this house
menak annon hita mangeahi~Don't worry, we'll catch up later
menak habobongot hamsar haruarna~comfortable entry and exit
menak hita hansurhon luhut~Don't worry, let's destroy everything
menak hita maniru ondeng~don't worry, let's just cheat
menak mida adaran aek~calm looking at the expanse of water
menak rampak pipi rata~comfortable with a flat face
mene anggo ido pangidoanmu~OK, if that's your request
mene au ra tuan~OK, I'm ready, sir
mene bolo ndada lomo~OK if you don't like it
mene santabi naung biraon~OK, sorry for being rude
mengkel binsan ndada diorai~laugh as long as it is not prohibited
mereng mi bonar hu~You shake my spirit
merung loni daging mi~your body is thin
merung pa jo siubeonmu~Get your stomach thin first
metmet bulung ni baja~small tree leaves whose sap is made black
metmethon soarana nunga borngin~the sound is small at night
mingor loni soara mi~your voice is noisy
minik mommonon godang eol~snotty kid with lots of style
mintop ndada boi morot~stuck and unable to move
minum kopi jaring olahraga~drink coffee while exercising
minum purik ni indahan~Drink the water used from the rice cooker
mirdong mamangke bahasa batak~confused about using Batak language
mirdong mamikkirhon parpintoron mu~dizzy thinking about your sincerity
mirdong ndada maniop hepeng~dizzy not holding the money
mirdong ulu ku mambegena~I had a headache hearing that
mirdong ulu modomna hurang~headaches, lack of sleep
mirdong ulu ra puntar~the headache is about to explode
misena ondeng na imbar~Only the mustache is different
modom an nunga arian~sleep there, it's already afternoon
modom an pabalga hurum~Sleep there and expand your cheeks
modom anggo naung tunduon~sleep when you're sleepy
modom asa ndang hansit~sleep so you don't get sick
modom biang marsogot sikkola~Dog sleeps at school tomorrow
modom boban nunga borngin~it's late to sleep
modom di abingan ina~sleeping on mother's lap
modom dohot martata suping~sleep with a smile
modom jo dakdanak pantik~Go to sleep first, little bastard
modom ma doge boban~Go to sleep, burden
modom ma godang begu~Many ghosts sleep
modom ma ho loja~go to sleep, you're tired
modom ndada hea nagaor~sleep is never disturbed
modom sa pala renges~he slept very soundly
modom torus anak on~Keep this child sleeping
modomma san naung borngin~It's late to sleep there
modomma tagan i podomi~go to sleep before sleeping
modommu ndada naeng renges~you won't sleep well
mohop godang rongit muse~it's hot, lots of mosquitoes again
mohop son au pangali~It's hot here, I'll cool it
mohopna ari on oma~it's hot today mom
mohopna lua tu utokutok~the heat escapes to the brain
molo adong batu bara~if there is coal
molo adong minum rasa~if there is a taste to drink
molo adong namun sala~if there is but it's wrong
molo adong pe bibir~if there are even lips
molo adong rias boan~if you have make-up, bring it
molo adong tanda tangan~if there is a signature
molo arian mohop hian~if it's a hot day
molo ate bagak rohana~if it's not beautiful at heart
molo boi do biru~if possible blue
molo boi jujur tuho~if I can be honest with you
molo boi nian nomor~if possible the number increases
molo boi putikhononhu bintang~If I could pick a star
molo boi rap muse~if we could be together again
molo dang tabo dosa~if it doesn't feel good it's a sin
molo diranapi dohot hasabamon~if responded with patience
molo dohar hubuat bintang~if I could pick a star
molo ho mangarur asi~if you put love
molo ho sintong manghaholongihu~if you really love me
molo ingot dainang tarsinta~if you remember your beloved mother
molo ingoti bias au~if you remember it hates me
molo jonok allang ma~if it's close, eat it
molo jonok hian beta~If it's close, come on
molo lao tu ladang~if you want to go to the garden
molo mamora di hatai~if you're rich you talk about it
molo margabus tanggungan da~If you lie, take responsibility
molo naeng putus do~if you want to break up
molo naeng tu dobi~if you want to go to the lobby
molo nasida jobung maraek~if they are caught red-handed
molo naung boi mulak~if only I could go home
molo naung talipon olo~if you have already called, yes
molo olo mana kristen~if you want to be Christian
molo sega digatti da~If it's damaged, replace it
molo songoni beta modom~then let's sleep
molo songoni naung talup~then that's normal
molo songoni urus sajo~then just take care of it
molo toho aha buktina~If true, what is the proof?
mompo ari hala hatutubu~entering the day of birth
mompo umur na imbaru~entering a new age
monding sa pala badia~his death was very noble
monding sa pala marlapatan~his death means a lot
mongkus alai merung sa~greedy but skinny
monjap sa utokutok mi~squat your brain
mora pogos lea pogos~rich, poor, destitute
mora sibolis au ida~like the devil I see
morot alani jolma asing~shifted because of someone else
motor ido nunga ditangko~the car had been stolen
muat au imbaru marsiajar~I know I'm just learning
muda dapot di tingkina~young people can do it in time
mudar batak hu marsigorgor~My Batak blood is churning
mudar manuk unang dibolonghon~Don't throw away chicken blood
mudar maraburan di igungna~blood splattered down his nose
mula mananda portibi bolus~the beginning of getting to know the cross world
mula olo boasa hamuna~In the beginning, why are you?
mula sadihari hamuna marangkup~Since when did you two pair up?
mula sonang marujung naporsuk~a happy beginning ends in misery
mulak ari naung holom~when I got home it was already dark
mulak do hita saguman~we all go home
mulak huta manuturi ngolu~returning home to organize my life
mulak karejo nunga borngin~I got back from work late
mulak ma ho bintang,~Go home you star
mulak maraek mulak maraekaek~coming home wet coming home muddy
mulak on naung borngin~coming home it's late
mulak ondeng marbahudung ho~just go home how are you?
mulak pungkul sia bolus~come home at past nine
mulak sikkola ungkap baju~come home from school and undress
mulak, ulak, suang tarpulos~reconnected
mulakma au pala manghaholongimu~come back, I love you very much
mulakma hami olo holi~Let's go home, bone
mulana adong ma hata~in the beginning was the word
mulana au borontak tuho~At first I rebelled against you
mulana denggan ardo hepeng~At first it was good about money
mulana tonggi hadungonna naboritan~At first it was sweet but it ended up being painful
mundar tu asing roha~turn to another heart
muningan donganmu na batak~ask your hobo friend
muningan ma jolma tuana~ask his parents
muningan punguan ni hatahata~asked the dictionary
munsung hamuna na suman~your snouts are similar
mura unang dibahen lunglam~simple, don't make it complicated
muse di ambar lobar~again at the lizard pond
muse di kobun sina~again in the Chinese garden
muse di suhisuhi pa~it's in the corner right?
muse didia ho holonghi~where are you my darling?
muse dipabuni tuhan hita~again saved by our God
muse diruma ise ido~Who is it at home?
muse haleon hata hata~There's a shortage of words
muse las roha sonangna~happy again
muse lulu balu poso~looking for a young widow
muse mangan manang ngail~are eating or fishing
muse mangandung i ombun~again wailing in the clouds
muse marbunga bunga rohahi~My heart is blooming again
muse marbunga bunga rohami~your heart is blooming again
muse meam parmeaman au~I'm playing my game
muse muse mamintor sinok~I immediately fell asleep again
muse sirarion jolma on~I'm meeting with this person
muse tipul roha ho~Are you heartbroken yet?
muse tuk tombis tallik~I'm tired of being stabbed
mussat bangso ma ho~change your tribe
mussat jo asa modom~move first to sleep
mutu mate martimbanghon diparhatoban~willing to die rather than be enslaved
na ambung di bondut~which is easy to swallow
na andar na didalanhon~clear thing to do
na ara martenju ise~who is fighting?
na asing ndada dapotan~the others didn't get it
na badia jala umburju~the noble becomes the noblest
na beuk maradophon dosa~who is immune to sin
na boasa do ho~why you?
na boi lompa manunsi~who can cook, wash
na boi manggantihon mi~who can replace you
na bonar marsiajarna olo~who is enthusiastic about learning
na bornok imbaru tabo~what's juicy is delicious
na boto tangkas boto~Those who know, definitely know
na denggan dagingna alimos~which contains meaning
na di galang gok~which is fully supported
na di mudu amang~who was guided by Mr
na didia ho tarampe~which is where you are located
na dieaki dohot biangna~followed by his dog
na diihuthon dohot ondok~accompanied by rhythm
na dilehon tu hami~that was given to us
na dipasahat sangga targogot~which was delivered when he was short of breath.
na ditanda dohot partompuran~known as battle
na dituriturihon rap ho~what you told me
na dorsun sa ho~you're the dirty one
na godang ma saritamu~that's a lot of your story
na godangan eol mi~which is more your style
na godangan pantas ho~what you say a lot
na godangan sungkunsungkun ho~you have lots of questions
na hatop la karejom~your work is fast
na hea mangisi ngoluhu~who once filled my life
na hita naung bolusi~what we've been through
na ho pusa sa~the one you tortured him
na hugurat goarmu holong~I wrote your name darling
na huguret botari ido~which I wrote that evening
na hurang denggan tahina~which means it's not good
na ingkon hu tanom~that I have to hide
na ingkon marsi mangisi~which must complement each other
na jogi angkanghi asi~strong one, my dear brother
na jogi parangan au~my strong warrior
na joujou au angkang~who calls me brother
na juang di langit~it's ugly against the sky
na lomo tubi manuk~who likes cockfighting
na lumpu pangingani jabu~the paralyzed occupant of the house
na maliali di hadang~who are orphaned in clothing
na mamboan siboanon gok~who carries full luggage
na mampuna tohonan angkup~who has dignity as well
na mangarihon ae siak~which has a spicy taste
na mohop lamu matutung~the hot one burns even more
na nari mangaloas au~who still allows me
na nari marbohi marsinondang~who still has a brilliant face
na naung tinggil kodak~who is already responsive to the camera
na ndang mamikkirhon naniomo~who doesn't think about profit
na ndang tupa torbang~which is impossible to miss
na ondingonding marlapatan tihus~those who stand in the way are enemies
na padimposhon jambulan ganjang~which straightens long hair
na pala mararga bagim~which is very valuable to you
na paopathon maradi sasungkupna~fourthly, get enough rest
na paotootohon sa ho~who deceived you
na parasian jesus kristus~who loved Jesus Christ
na parjolo ingkon pasangap~The first thing you have to do is respect it
na pature na dasip~which regulates which patents
na pitung pangultong losung~the blind mortar blower
na porlu da uli~what you need is beauty
na ra au nituhor~what I want to buy
na ra au tuhorhon~what I want to buy
na ra didahop au~who wants to hug me
na ra hu nituhor~what I want to buy
na ra marende sa~who wants to sing?
na ringkot andar hadungonna~What's important is that the end is clear
na ringkot boruna hipas~the important thing is that her daughter is healthy
na ringkot haberengan sonang~the important thing is to look happy
na ringkot jeges karejona~the important thing is that the work is good
na sadia galas sa~how many glasses?
na sangga on didalani~which is currently being carried out
na saut habalian rimas~which is an outlet for anger
na sian posoposo ditadinghon~that of an abandoned baby
na siholna di ahu~who misses me
na sundung, dingkan hasar~who tend to be rude
na tobok ma ni~that's the innocent one
na tuat tu tanom~who went down to the grave
na tukkikon pangalua bodil~the one who shoots the rifle
na ujar sandar sorang~whose intelligence is surup is born
na umuli bagas ngolu~the best in life
nadenggan dalan nuaeng ondeng~just go now
naeng au dungdung dahopanmu~I'll take your hug
naeng dihangoluhon pandidion badia~holy baptism will be performed
naeng disalamathon sian pinsangpinsang~will be saved from punishment
naeng hu danggur ho~I'll throw you
naeng hu ponggol hapalana~I'll cut off his head
naeng manghorhon dohot habalian~will have an impact on others
naeng manubuhon soridadu habisukon~will give birth to soldiers of wisdom
naeng marmudumudu jabu balatuk~will build a household
naeng mate molo songoni~I want to die if it's like this
naeng mulak tu jambi~will return to Jambi city
naeng taringot saleleng ngoluhu~will remember for the rest of my life
nagari ni boruboru jogi~land of strong women
nahinan pupus ni tondihu~my late lover
nai pinggan matio hajolmaon~humanity
nai pinggan matio hangoluon~fairy of life
naingkon mangaramoti parsaoran ngolu~obliged to maintain harmony in life
nala di bagas rohahi~burning in my heart
namun sintong ondeng hatami~as long as what you say is true
nandigan annon hita martumpol~when we get engaged
nandigan idaonhu bintang marlinang~when I see the sparkling stars
nandigan ndang tupa rap~when it's impossible to be together
nang apala olo ngabe~If so, that's fine
nang ho ndada marmeammeam~if you don't play around
nang ibana mangalului au~if he looks for me
nang mardeka hape hita~apparently we are free
nang modom do ho~you're sleeping
nang pe sihir sidabuan~which is almost finished with the amount of rice to be cooked
nangaetan pikkir nangaetan gogo~I think I'm tired of energy
nanget mangan sa asi~Eat slowly, darling
nanget nanget bahen da~do it slowly
nangkin mangasta nuaeng dipahabang~It was insulting, now it's gone
nangkin sirsir mamparborhathon hamletna~Just when he was leaving his girlfriend
nangkok boruboru timbo dibahen~high-altitude rides are made
nangkok tu surgo marsinondang~ascend to the brilliant heavens
nantuari denggan nuaeng roa~Yesterday it was good, now it's bad
nantuari giot diotoi au~Yesterday I almost got cheated
nantuari ibana hea rampa~Yesterday he was nosy
nantuari ngingi au tanggal~yesterday my tooth fell out
nantuari piapia nuaeng pat~Yesterday it was a kidney, now it's a leg
nantuari sian dia ho~where were you from yesterday?
napu na ginagat horbo~buffalo dung fertilizer
nari boi tarlaosi tuhan~can God still forgive you?
nari di baion on~still in this pandan
nari dipabuni tuhan hita~our God still keeps it
nari dohot hami dison~still with us here
nari ganasna ho hamlethu~You're still angry, my girlfriend
nari gogo hansit pinggolhu~it's still loud, my ears hurt
nari hona so hamuna~you're still stuck in traffic
nari hu ae haroroanmu~I still feel your presence
nari jotjot manjadi parporangan~there are still frequent wars
nari lagak au muse~I'm still handsome again
nari leheng olo ho~are you still stubborn?
nari leleng hita bungkasan~It's still a long time since we moved
nari mangalompa sadasa olo~I'm still cooking myself
nari manogot ditongos on~This was sent early in the morning
nari metmet eol patimbohu~still small height style
nari ponggol marsiajar angkang~still learning, bro
nari rap alimos halilum~still with your shadow
nari riar manuk sa~the chicken is still wild
nari sonang dohot turgasna~still relaxed with his duties
nari tarbereng rittik sa~he still looks crazy
nasida holan hurang marsaor~they just don't get along enough
nasida holan manalahon mi~they just blame you
nasida manenganenga marmansam gulmiton~they demonstrate various movements
nasida mangehet nasida manuraki~they mock they denounce
nasida marporang di tondihu~they fight in my soul
nasida mutu mangaluahon tohonanna~he was willing to relinquish his position
nasida na marateate baja~those with hearts of steel.
nasida nanaeng pangingani narongko~they are candidates for hell
nasida naung ra dididi~they want to be baptized
natum jempek metmet terde~Your penis is short and tiny
naung ambul mangan lasiak~I can eat chilies
naung au mengamini ho~I have defended you
naung au surathon olo~I've registered
naung bagak dohot angur~it's beautiful and smells good
naung boi hami marminggu~we can do the service
naung boi ma ni~that's possible
naung boi mangan lasiak~I can eat chilies
naung bolang tanganhu sambola~I already have spots on one side of my hand
naung borngin beta maradi~It's late, let's rest
naung borngin gaor dope~it's late at night and it's still noisy
naung borngin tumagon modom~It's already night, it's better to sleep
naung borngin, loashon modom~It's late, please sleep
naung bosur manganna asi~Have you had your fill of food darling?
naung bulan april nuaeng~it's April now
naung das dia angkanghu~where have you reached my brother?
naung denggan dagingna anak~already pregnant with a child
naung di lango pa~it's already been offered
naung dibahen durus au~I've been melted
naung diparade unungan sa~The application has been prepared
naung dipasintong salimut ni~the blanket has been approved
naung dipature apala anture~it's arranged so neatly
naung disurathon gabe parsidohot~have registered as followers
naung ditontuhon hotma naung~it's been set, it's fixed
naung gabe masala boa~has become a common problem
naung gabe toktok au~it has become my obligation
naung godang hamuna buat~you've taken a lot
naung godang tihus hu~I have many enemies
naung gula manisia on~already this human sugar
naung hahapong beha pedan~I'm in a hurry... how about it, friend?
naung haliang pasir hami~have been around our coast
naung hangar ho olo~you're hungry, aren't you?
naung hasomalon mula poso~It's been a habit from an early age
naung ho jait sipatum~you've sewn your shoes
naung ho umma inanginangmu~you have kissed your wife
naung hu lontik ibana~I've carved him
naung hupasahat tabe mi~I have conveyed your greetings
naung hurang dua sirimpuson~I'm missing two fingers
naung iboto nangkin sae~you've just finished
naung isi nampuna au~I already have it
naung isi siboan marga~there are already surname bearers
naung isi surirang sian~there is already information from
naung leleng ndada manjangkit~Haven't climbed in a long time
naung leleng ndada tarpangke~it hasn't been used for a long time
naung losok ihut laok~I'm too lazy to get involved
naung lupahon ondeng pusaka~Just forget about inheritance
naung mahiang emena angkang~the rice is dry, brother
naung malo ma au~I'm clever
naung malum hansit ama~Dad's illness has healed
naung mamintor ihut manalahon~I immediately took the blame
naung mandapothon manghajongjonghon ojak~has received official recognition
naung mangahap bias ho~Are you bored yet?
naung mangan ho baoa~you've eaten son
naung mangaso nangkin asi~I've had a rest, darling
naung maradi ma udan~the rain has stopped
naung marjabu balatuk ibana~he is married
naung marjabu hala luhut~I'm all married now
naung matehon hatop mulak~I've turned it off and go home quickly
naung musem paias daginghu~I've also cleaned my body
naung mutu manghophop ugamo~are willing to make religious sacrifices
naung nangkin mangan nangkin~I just ate earlier
naung ndang tarida muse~is no longer visible
naung oto sipanggaron boto~It's stupid to act like you know
naung pangsiun anakmi on~your son has retired
naung paradihon masala on~I've stopped this problem
naung ris umur mi~you're old enough
naung roa godang eol~many styles are bad
naung ropang jambulan binahenna~His hair has fallen out
naung ropang obukhu binahenna~He made my hair fall out
naung sadia loni pinasingot~how many times have you been reminded?
naung sae manuhat todolan~have finished measuring the depth
naung sae sahitmu nuaeng~your pain is over now
naung saedo turgas hamuna~have you finished your assignment?
naung salpu hansur rohahi~my heart has already been broken
naung sandang pitu bulan~already seven months pregnant
naung sapatutna hita maniru~we should emulate it
naung sataon au marujung~It's been a year since I died
naung sonang ho dohotsa~you're happy with him
naung sun diunung au~I'm ready to propose
naung sun siat bosi~ready to load iron
naung tardais au jahana~I was touched when I read it
naung tarsilang ma jesus~Jesus has been crucified
naung tartompa mula poso~was formed early on
naung tempo ndang dope~are you on holiday yet?
naung tuhor lampak buku~I've bought the book cover
naung unang gabusi au~OK, don't lie to me
naung unang salahon angkang~Don't blame me, brother
naung unang soal torus~Don't continue to debate anymore
naungdo hamu manarehon diri~have you prepared yourself?
ndada aha holan mamanghulingi~it's okay just to say hello
ndada aha legan saotik~it's okay to be a little stylish
ndada andar saut jolma~it's not clear to be a person
ndada ate on pitolot~no, it's not. this is a pencil
ndada au holan margait~no I'm just kidding
ndada au pangido ramuan~No, I asked for a recipe
ndada banje muse on~this isn't right anymore
ndada boi di dodo~cannot be measured
ndada boi di mudu~can't be treated
ndada boi digaori olat~cannot be contested
ndada boi dijama hatahatana~I can't take his word for it
ndada boi dipatorang hansit~inexplicable pain
ndada boi hu sipak~I can't kick
ndada boi i pollung~can't be denied
ndada boi i sundati~cannot be cancelled
ndada boi leas ondeng~can't just ignore it
ndada boi marende au~can't sing me
ndada boi marroha tio~can't think straight
ndada boi marsi mangantusi~can't understand each other
ndada boi meret roha~can't change hearts
ndada boi pasondothon manganna~can't stop eating it
ndada boi simalolonghi modom~my eyes can't sleep
ndada boi tarbalos hu~I can't reply
ndada boi tardokhon goarhu~can't say my name
ndada bolas ihut ihuton~can't join in
ndada bolas mamanghulingi muse~can't say hello anymore
ndada boto au antongan~I don't know what you mean
ndada boto au hudia~don't know where I'm going
ndada boto tupa panghasoloman~don't know, maybe a fan
ndada dapot molo songoni~can't do that
ndada dijaha rampak sahali~not read at all
ndada dijama sandang sadasa~not held pregnant alone
ndada disuba sumolsol ho~Don't try, sorry
ndada disungkun gari dialusi~not asked but answered
ndada gait pa au~I'm not playing
ndada haberengan anak parompuanna~her daughter was not visible
ndada habilangan dison godangna~there are countless here
ndada hahurangonna asi asi~there is no shortage of love
ndada hea diburi pinggolna~never cleaned his ears
ndada hea hubege muse~I never heard from it again
ndada hea manjae bingkas~never basic independence
ndada ho boa au~you didn't tell me
ndada holan di ngot~no, just to get up
ndada hu pikkiri ni~I don't think about that
ndada huagam tudos marnipi~I didn't expect it, like dreaming
ndada hulehon anggo nasida~I don't like them
ndada hurimpu ama on~I didn't expect this father
ndada hurimpu sahatop on~I didn't expect it to be this fast
ndada i holso dongan~no complaints, friend
ndada imbus seat kue~doesn't blow cut the cake?
ndada isi ae biarna~there is no fear
ndada isi anian sa~there's no comparison
ndada isi ardoan mi~none of your business
ndada isi artina sundol~there's no point in holding a grudge
ndada isi gadis dodak~no selling bran
ndada isi hepeng angkup~no extra money
ndada isi hepeng dirihu~I don't have any money
ndada isi hepenghi on~I don't have any money here
ndada isi jolma sadape~not a single person
ndada isi lapatanna dingolumu~there is no meaning in your life
ndada isi lulu tohap~there is no seeking reward
ndada isi mental sa~there is no mentality
ndada isi muse habotna~no more sadness?
ndada isi na manungkun~no one asked
ndada isi na marbinereng~no one pays attention
ndada isi na martongtang~there is nothing contradictory
ndada isi na sihabiaron~there's nothing to be afraid of
ndada isi na sundat~nothing fails
ndada isi nampuna ho~you don't own it
ndada isi olle marende~no singing talent
ndada isi pandokan mangangguk~there is no such thing as crying
ndada isi pangalaho ho~you have no morals
ndada isi pangalaho sa~he has no morals
ndada isi panganon marmiak~no greasy food
ndada isi panggadis kue~there are no cake sellers
ndada isi panggonti mi~there is no replacement for you
ndada isi pangidoan ondeng~just no request
ndada isi parbue rambutan~no rambutan fruit
ndada isi pedan manghatahatai~no friends to talk to
ndada isi rapan sarge~there is no rubbish scattered around
ndada isi tahim martandang~you don't have any plans to date
ndada isi tohap sa~there is no quota
ndada jeges boni on~this seed is not good
ndada jotjot manghurtik bohi~don't touch your face often
ndada lomo au tammat~don't like me passing?
ndada lupa tuhor haenna~Don't forget to buy the cloth
ndada mamahe hata masihol~don't use the word miss
ndada mambolonghon rapan marsineang~don't throw any rubbish
ndada mangajar muse di~no longer teaching at
ndada mangantusi ma ibana~he doesn't understand
ndada mangarti beha tohona~I don't understand how it really is
ndada mangarti torsa tohona~don't understand the original story
ndada manjadi alai mantat~it didn't happen but it had an effect
ndada manjalo barang tihas~do not accept used goods
ndada maol mulak ho~you don't have to go home
ndada maraloalo taru dongan~do not disagree with each other
ndada marguna dohot denggan~not functioning properly
ndada marlakku di au~doesn't apply to me
ndada marroha tudos ni~didn't mean it like that
ndada martahi mulak natal~Don't plan on coming home for Christmas?
ndada naeng au hosinghon~I won't return it
ndada naeng boi manjua~won't be able to avoid it
ndada naeng halupahonon asi~will not be forgotten darling
ndada naeng hea huboan~I'll never take it
ndada naeng munggil rohana~his heart will not waver
ndada naeng pareak mi~will not marry you
ndada oto holan garapus~not stupid just careless
ndada padohot tolopan di~does not include consent to
ndada pangke hua au~don't use my sauce
ndada patu tu parenta~disobeying orders
ndada porlu di sangko~no need to pay attention
ndada porlu gogo balga~doesn't need a lot of power
ndada porlu hugurat goarna~I don't need to write his name
ndada porlu mangoloi uhum~no need to obey the rules
ndada porlu marjugul mangalupahon~no need to insist on forgetting.
ndada porlu muse manongoshon~no need to send any more
ndada pos dohot panghilalaanna~not sure about his feelings
ndada puna pangalaho ho~you have no morals
ndada puna sabola hoding~don't have a special route
ndada ra mamereng au~don't want to see me
ndada ra soal au~I don't want to debate
ndada ra tarbereng bohina~don't want to see his face
ndada rampak huting bolang~not the same as striped cats
ndada rimas saotik soksok~not angry a little annoyed
ndada ris anggo nasai~that's not enough
ndada sihol dohot bibit~don't miss wisely
ndada sirsir dohot rohahi~doesn't match my feelings
ndada sudung tudos amangamangmu~not special like your man
ndada taralo hu ho~I'm not against you
ndada taralo muse aba~can't fight anymore ah
ndada tarhilala naung dolidoli~I don't feel like I'm a man anymore
ndada tartaon hu muse~I can't hold it in anymore
ndada tolap ho annon~you can't afford it later
ndada tombis balerong ondeng~No, just Tanjung Balai
ndada tongon dohot rohahi~doesn't match my feelings
ndada tulus anggo godangan~don't focus if there are too many
ndada tupa ibana tuat~there's no way he's coming down
ndang amban au naporsuk~it's okay if I'm miserable
ndang ambul mambuha pa~can't reveal it right?
ndang andar ho amang~You're not clear, sir
ndang boi i porso~can't be denied
ndang boi mangalului daram~can't earn a living
ndang burbur angkup udan~not damaged by rain
ndang dope au dodo~I haven't measured it yet
ndang dope di loas~not allowed yet
ndang dope dipungka olo~hasn't started yet?
ndang dope hahomion rampak~haven't studied yet
ndang dope hea mangebati~never visited
ndang dope hu topari~I haven't slapped him yet
ndang dope i oloi~not yet approved
ndang dope isi baio~not yet, bro
ndang dope isi lapatanan~no translation yet :(
ndang dope isi parhobason~no preparation yet
ndang dope isi pasanganhu~I don't have a partner yet
ndang dope maderder hepeng~the money hasn't been disbursed yet
ndang dope marrongkap betak~perhaps not yet matched
ndang dope masak bibi~immature, ripe
ndang dope ris sinamotna~the dowry is not enough
ndang dope sae marsiajarna~haven't finished studying yet
ndang guna di sangsi~there's no point in worrying
ndang hea au mandodo~I never expected
ndang hea tarpikkirhon angkiningan~never thought about it before
ndang hu golom muse~I don't hold it anymore
ndang huroa au laos~I can't possibly forget
ndang isi guna sa~it's no use
ndang isi hepenghi muse~I don't have any money anymore
ndang isi na sungkalit~nothing is difficult
ndang isi utokna la~he doesn't have a brain
ndang lupa hami manangianghon~don't forget to pray
ndang main au lae~I'm not playing, I'm brother-in-law
ndang manghundang tombom muse~doesn't attract violator anymore
ndang marhepeng olo ho~you're broke, aren't you?
ndang marsipaidaan mangalualu tenju~fighting and fighting
ndang pir do hami~we're not that hard
ndang porlu manganturehon hu~no need to care about me
ndang porlu marpahu pikkiri~no need to think too much
ndang ra anggo nasai~I don't want it like that.
ndang sa sudung ho~not as special as you
ndang saut mambakbak sihol~don't miss it
ndang silbak angkup tingki~not cracked by time
ndang tabo au jadina~I don't feel good about it
ndang tardungdung hita ido~it's unreachable for us
ndang tarpaboa isi rohahi~my heart cannot be said
ndang tarpaboa muse daina~it's unspeakable
ndang tupa lombu ni~it couldn't be that cow
ndangma nari rampak marsiajarna~No, it's still the same as learning
ndangna hamuna isi masala~don't you guys have a problem?
ndangna pakansi ari saptu~isn't it Saturday holiday?
nenget hian ho karejo~you work slowly
nenget nenget mangusung mobil~be careful when riding a motorbike
nga balga do anakmu~your child is already big
nga boi sang saotik~I can do a little
nga dituntun be lomona~I've been forced to do whatever I want
nga mate be lampu~every light has gone out
nga puas be hubereng~I'm satisfied with seeing it
nga siap ho mambege~you're ready to hear
nga tata be roha~every heart is raw
ngabe luhut ambolong parsuma~it's all wasted
ngail di aek litok~fishing in murky water
ngalian mohop dohot taruk~fever and cough
ngalina borngin on tuhan~God, it's cold tonight
ngingi na jollung huduru~teeth protruding
ngolu adong ma paraloan~life is a competition
ngolu ate hasuharan tudostudos~life is not a matter of comparison
ngolu bagas angka hitir~live in fear
ngolu bulus saut mala~live simply and become generous
ngolu dame dohot menak~live peacefully and serenely
ngolu dohot manggomgomi rap~live and rule together
ngolu duma dohot sonang~prosperous and happy life
ngolu hot ingkon mardalan~life must still go on
ngolu i nagari turiturian~live in a fairy tale
ngolu i portibi turiturian~live in a fairy tale world
ngolu ingkon hot didalani~life must continue to be lived
ngolu marmula sian nipi~Life begins with a dream
ngolu martahi ni bagak~planning life is cool
ngolu matua raphon au~live with me
ngolu menak gok dapotan~live a peaceful life full of blessings
ngolu na apala rundut~life is so complicated
ngolu na pala mandosdos~very boring life
ngolu naung buhai munggil~life has begun to falter
ngolu ni ingkon marjuang~life means you have to fight
ngolu on pala mangalojai~life is very tiring
ngolu pe naeng hulean~I will give you life
ngolu sopola mandege ulu~live without stepping on your head
ngolu sopola marminggu isara~life without worship is like
ngolu susa tongtong dipatoru~hard life is always devalued
ngoluhu margarar be ari~my life pays every day
ngorngor ae on pusok~slowly feel this navel
ngorngor ginjang todoan sadasa~worried about your own choices
ngorngor tano tangkas boi~slowly you can do it
ngot dohot jala tiurma~arise and be bright
ngotngot hurum tarhona bobak~the pain of the cheek being hit by the claw
ngotngot rohahi tarseat sihol~My heart aches and I miss you
ni ambung di nidok~that's easy to say
ni bahasa habangsoon ho~that's your national language
ni bege soso dainang~that's listening to mom's advice
ni di kode hadungon~it's at the corner shop
ni isi na martihas~there's something wrong with that
ni laos todoan bonton~that's a tough choice
ni lonsam balasting sa~that's the total tax
ni ma na digora~that's what it's called
ni ma pikkiri jo~that's what you think first
ni manisia manang tangkurak~is it human or skull
ni na bahen sompit~that's what makes it narrow
ni na dilambung lapo~that's the one near the shop
ni naeng mullop sandirina~it will appear by itself
ni naung rohana imana~that was his will
ni osang ho olo~that's your chin, okay?
ni pandokan jolma nuaeng~that's what people say now
ni pareakhon tu hauma~it leads to the fields
ni sajo ho boto~that's all you know
ni sara jolma bisuk~that's the way of clever people
nia panganon hami sasungkupna~give us enough food
nian ho tinkos medan~indeed you are from the field
nibagas goar tuhan amen~in the name of God amen
nibagas rohami boasa huroha~in your heart why apparently
nihoniho barita na uli~preaching the gospel
nikmati pardalanan na adong~enjoy the journey
nikmati sajo suasana delmekna~just enjoy the comfortable atmosphere
nimmu ndada tudos ni~you don't think so
ninna arian godangma saritamu~he said afternoon, you have lots of stories
ninna binsan ibana denggan~he said as long as he was good
ninna ra di mudu~he said he wanted to be treated.
ninna ra mangorui sigaret~he said he wanted to reduce smoking
ninna sai roa sahali~he thought it was very ugly
ninna susa susa dorunna~. he said it was difficult or difficult
nipi aha nangkin donda~What was your dream last night?
nipi do au da~I'm dreaming, right?
nipina unang ganjil ganjil~Don't dream strangely
niroham nari isi goarhu~In your heart there is still my name
nomor tolu nari monggop~number three is still hidden
nonang hamuna ndada natingkos~your conversation is of no quality
nonang mandailing sadari ari~daily Mandailing language conversations
nonang sonang di kantor~casual chat in the office
nonangan mansam aha on~what kind of chat is this
nonangan tona ugasan ibana~his message chat
nosan palelenghu di huta~long-term effects in the village
nuaeng au andorang tarhapit~now I'm in a bind
nuaeng garar gararan mi~now pay your installments
nuaeng hamuna boi morot~now you can shift
nuaeng i sangga hatutubum~now at your birth
nuaeng muse partaonan aha~what season is it now?
nuaeng naung marujung sahitmu~now your pain is over
nuaeng ngolu mangarasuni roha~now life poisons the heart
nuaeng portibi andorang mandalani~now the world is experiencing
nuaeng songon dia baritana~now how are you?
nuaeng tading mangetong ari~now just counting the days
nunga balga musang inang~Mother's ferret is already big
nunga borngin anakhu, modomma~It's late my child, go to sleep
nunga borngin boasa marende~it's late why sing
nunga borngin dangna modom~it's already night instead of sleeping
nunga borngin kopi jo~It's coffee night already
nunga borngin marguru dope~It's evening practice time
nunga borngin modom hamuna~It's already nighttime for you to sleep
nunga borngin ombasna modom~it's night time to sleep
nunga borngin pe mangadangi~It's already night and I'm wandering around
nunga borngin tarae male~It's already nighttime and I feel hungry
nunga borngin tingkina maradi~It's late, time to rest
nunga borngin umdenggan modom~It's late, you should sleep
nunga borngin unang mengkel~it's late, don't laugh
nunga do ho maridi~have you take a bath
nunga dungo tuhan jesus~Lord Jesus is risen
nunga godang na torbang~much has been missed
nunga hasian habis maridi~My darling has finished showering
nunga lambat hami mangan~it's too late for us to eat
nunga lele au diparjalangan~I've thrown me abroad
nunga lele huta hatubuan~have expelled the village where he was born
nunga leleng sisi tinggal~It's been a long time since I've lived
nunga mompo tingki pangsiun~has entered retirement
nunga piga anggota tahe~how many members do you have?
nunga ro do ibana~has he come?
nunga ro do pandita~Has the priest come?
nunga ro manggonopi uhum~has come to fulfill the law
nunga ro panganon hita~our food has arrived
nunga ro panganon mi~Your food has arrived
nunga ro sajo jo~just come first
nunga ro sian dao~have come from afar
nunga ro tongosan mi~Your shipment has arrived
nunga ro tujabu on~have come to this house
nunga rurus ulubalang hu~my hero has fallen
nunga sintong ho rittik~it's true you're crazy
nunga tais godang torbang~much has been missed
nunga talu godang taridana~I've lost a lot it seems
nunga tolu taon da~it's been three years, right?
nunga tuhor karsis dang~Have you bought tickets yet?
nungada au lao maridi~OK, I'm going to take a shower
nungama santabi molo lola~never mind, sorry if it bothers you
obukna ingkon di tu~her hair has to be done
odot sa sahali muse~press it once again
ojak holan ndada paullophon~official, just doesn't show it
oke hot sada uduran~OK, stay in line
oke hujalo pangidoan maapmu~OK, I accept your apology
oke lonsam sasudena sadia~OK, how much is the total?
oke marsogot di ulahon~OK, I'll do it tomorrow
oke marsogot hita maenhon~OK, tomorrow we'll play
oke paima tongkin muse~OK, wait a moment
oke sonang jama pareso~okay, be safe, take control
okema anggo mansam ni~okay if it's like that
olap ibana dohot donganna~about him and his friends
olap panghataion jolma asing~about what other people say
olap punsa sosor mampar~regarding dispersed settlement patterns
olle hu ate umpasa~My talent is not poetry
olle ni di dipabangkit~talent is to be developed
olo alani huang ma~yes, because it's annoying
olo ampun arga sahali~oh my gosh it's so expensive
olo au sisean imbaru~yes I am a new student
olo bala da mas~Yes Angkara said the clue to ensure gold
olo burjuma molo songoni~yeah, that's good then
olo di mangantusi ma~yes, understand
olo do tuhoi barat~Yes, limit the latitude
olo goarna lomo lumba~yes, he likes racing
olo modomma, nunga borngin~Yes, go to sleep, it's late
olo naung jaga landit~Yes, watch out for slippery
olo naung punguhon hepeng~OK, collect the money
olo ngabe maras hinan~OK, never mind, worry first
olo ompung boru peang~yes, grandma is tired
olo pisang dang adong~I don't want bananas
olo songon dia do~yeah how
olo tongtong parenta tuhan~always obey God's commands
olo tu jolma matua~obedient to parents
olo tuhan jongirna portibi~oh my god how cruel the world is
olo tulang au paima~yes uncle, I'll wait
olo uduti ma karejona~Yes, keep working
olodo ho gabe punahu~will you be mine
olodo ho manontong nirohahu~will you stay in my heart?
olodo ho saut amangamanghu~will you be my husband
oloho dalan rampak ahu~do you want to go with me?
olohon ma saboi mi~do what you can
oloma au di sarat~I want to be dragged
oloma au hona barobo~I'm going to get arrested
oloma molo songoni angkang~OK then bro
oma mangalompa di dapur~mother cooks in the kitchen
ombak ido pala pinsur~The hoe was very sharp
ombak ma hauma ni~The hoe is the rice field
ombasna di patamahon diri~it's time to stand up for yourself
ombasna modom nunga borngin~it's time to sleep
omo sa i tolopi~the results were approved
omo sian manggadis babi~proceeds from selling pigs
ompan dohot inganan dengke~bait and fish place
ompung boru dohot siminikna~grandmother and granddaughter
ompung boru naung nona~Grandma is senile
ompung boru rampak siminikna~grandmother and her grandson
ompung boru saor au~my slang grandmother
ompung boru urupima au~Grandma help me
ompung doli hansit disoroni~Grandpa is sick, he is being treated
ompung doli nini au~my great grandfather
ompung doli nini hu~my great grandfather
ompungna sian dakdanak au~my children's grandfather
on adong ma burabura~this is a curse
on adong ma tondina~this is his spirit
on annon ihuton rittik~This is going to get crazy
on au bibit langkitang~I'm wise snail
on bahasa batak bangke~This is the language of Batak corpses
on dengkena denggan dagingna~This fish is pregnant
on gokhonna naung dipadenggan~This invitation has been corrected
on hepengna ualu juta~This is eight million
on huta lambung jabuhu~this is the area around my house
on ibana bere au~this is my nephew
on imbaru pangondian jago~this is just a good lawyer
on isi digadis motor~This car is for sale
on jolma ihut ihuton~these people are joining in
on lapatanna borua ulihu~this means my beautiful girl
on ma manisia tois~this is a cruel human being
on ma tiruna pa~this is an example, right?
on mansai ndang ra~this is absolutely impossible
on matua matua suhat~this is old taro
on muse ra disungkun~I want to ask this again
on nari isi panglima~There is still a commander in chief
on naung hala lima~it's the fifth day
on ngolum ate nasida~this is your life not theirs
on ompungna ise olo~Who is this grandmother?
on pasaut supir sa~This is the driver
on tarnata bingkas sa~this turned out to be the cause
on tulangna sian medan~this is his uncle from Medan
onan gambiri boasa antongdo~what's wrong with the candlenut market?
ondihon anakmi on tuhan~protect your child, God
ondol ama ama parbagasan~Well done, Mr Housing
ondol jabum naung saut~Great, your house is ready
ondol panghataion arian on~great conversation this afternoon
ondol parpunguan ni jeges~great... togetherness is beautiful
onma dalanku na rais~this is my steep road
onma pamatanghon na disahaphon~this is my body surrendered
onma sipanganon sian hami~this is our dish
opat mardos ni roha~four agreed
opat tumbur na tubu~four growing shoots
oraora oraora na godang~many prohibitions
orbuk tihas asar pidong~ash from a bird's nest
orui na marisap ni~reduce smoking
otik otik boi ma~a little bit is possible
oto jongkas dohot panangko~cunning fool and bastard
oto unang dirim radoti~stupid, don't keep it
otona au manghaholongi ho~stupidly I love you
otur ma salomo mi~arrange it as you like
ou amang sonang ni~yes sir it's safe
ou anggo ho rongkaphu~yes, if you are my soul mate
ou au boto margana~Yes, I know his surname
ou au nari dolidoli~yes, I'm still a virgin
ou botang sahali ho~yes, you are very brave
ou di tulak hepengna~yes, the money was returned
ou hansit di hassang~yes pain in the nuts
ou ho na herek~yes, you are the monkey
ou hot ma ni~yeah, that's great
ou laos tudos ima~yes, that's how it is
ou ma pa jogi~yeah, it's strong
ou ndada apala buruk~yeah not so bad
ou ndada apala daldal~yeah it's not that gloomy
ou ndada boi marguna~yeah, it doesn't work
ou on naniolina sian~yes, this is his wife
ou ra boha ma~yeah, whatever you want
ou saripehu marsiajar jo~yes, my wife studied first
ou sitoha sada marga~Yes, coincidentally the same clan
ou tuani puji tuhan~yes, thank God
pa hu garar lojam~I'll pay for your tiredness
pa hubahen ho sonang~I'll make you happy
pa huputik bahenmu asi~I'll pick it for you darling
pa sintong panagaman hu~My guess is correct
pa taringot saleleng ngoluhu~I'll remember it all my life
pa tata na mangasangi~Dad is the one who is challenging
pa tebal hian ma~It's not the same as the hands and feet before
paandar hinan hata mi~clarify your language first
paandar parbogason hamuna mardua~clarify the relationship between the two of you
pabagak diri ondeng asa~Just make yourself beautiful
pabalga roha hu tuhan~enlarge my heart, Lord
pabalgahon dohot mangajari hu~raise and educate me
pabalikhon tangan ido bulus~turning the hand is easy
pabulus ma ardoanhu tuhan~God make things easy for me
padan annon au mangan~I promise I'll eat later
padan ise na diose~whose promise was broken?
padan na ndada dipaolooloi~promises not kept
padan ndang bahen masala~promise not to cause problems
padao hami sian pangunjunan~keep us from temptation
padengganhon di inganan ampuna~repairs at the owner's premises
padimposhon tas hu on~tidy up my bag
paduahon hadungon jambatan ni~both ends of the bridge
paduahon ima mata pandaraman~second is livelihood
paduahon pardompahanna giot mardomu~their two foreheads almost met
paet ni juada lapatanna~the bitterness also means it
paet ni palolohon insipirasi~the bitterness is inspirational
pagi manjonok siang sa~morning before noon
pagogo au mardompak ibana~strengthen me against it
pagogo roha mi asi~strengthen your heart darling
paharuar nipim di lung~set your dreams free in the sky
pahatop unang godang dok~hurry up, don't talk too much
paheanna bagak na diabithon~the clothes worn.
pahompu hasianna ompung doli~grandfather's favorite grandson
pahompu nini ompung doli~grandfather's great-grandson
pahompuhu aha habar mi~my grandson how are you?
paias pinggan di dapur~clean the dishes in the kitchen
paima au di hutam~wait for me in your village
paima au marhepeng olo~wait, I'll have money
paima das pidong targasip~wait until the bird is trapped
paima isi hepengna olo~wait, there's money, right?
paima ondeng saut bangke~just wait to be a corpse
paima pamalosan hu babi~Wait for my revenge, pig
paima tokke mi mulak~wait for your boss to come home
paima tumpal sian jahoba~Wait for a reply from Allah
pajagarhon na puna goar~respect those who have names
pajongjonghon mandera rara bontar~erected a red and white flag
pakansi saut ndang marhepeng~holidays are broke
pala ho hu lotak~I'll knock your head
pala manghaholongi hamuna mardua~really love you both
pala manghasiholi asi hasianmi~really miss your love
pala ndada tarjalo pikkiran~very illogical
pala pailahon dohot posi~very embarrassing and sad
pala pailahon mamereng ibana~it's so embarrassing to see
pala pala botang tokke~very, very strong boss
pala sihol persi borua~really miss the girl version
palambas andora hu tuhan~expand my chest, Lord
palelenghu hahapong au rongkanan~After a while I blocked it
palelenghu ho ndada mullop~you didn't show up for a long time
palelenghu migar annon on~This will get stale after a while
palelenghu tading di medan~lived in the field for a long time
palito metmet marlangkop hansa~small lamp with glass cover
palito purun holom loni~Turn on the lights, it's dark
paloas au mangingani rohami~let me occupy your heart
palobihu jagar di dilaluhon~too beautiful to miss
palolohon ngolu hita sonang~make our life happy
palua nandigan ingkon dirampinghon~let go if you have to let go
pamalum portibi on tuhan~restore this world God
pamangke tahuluk ni lagak~the hat wearer is handsome
pamarenta urupi ni parhauma~government helps farmers.
pamaresoan diri taradop tehnologi~self-control of technology
pamasuk tu haranjang rapan~put it in the waste basket
pambahenan ndada manjehei omo~Efforts do not betray results
pambalosan na ndang hadodoan~unexpected revenge
pamian puna au hinan~save mine first
pamikkiron hita na rampak~our thoughts are the same
pamikkiron na ruar somal~extraordinary thought
panangga dohot hasiputon mi~dog with your busy life
panangga pe di songgak~the dog was snapped
panangga tanga babi bodat~dog bitch pig monkey
panangga tanga oto loak~stupid stupid bastard dog
panangga tunggal lulu aha~what is the male dog looking for?
panataon haporseaon on mangarindanghon~this statement of faith proves
pandalan tangi parkarejo ulaon~work worker sensitive walker
pande bagas sahali angkang~Very deep bro
pande sipargogo handit barang~helper lifting goods
pande tingkir ho olo~you're a peeping tom, aren't you?
pande tona dohot panggadisan~messenger and sales
pandohan sian hata ranum~sentences from the word ranum
pandok bere sian iboto~the name of a sister's nephew
pandok nini bagas toba~the term great-grandfather in Toba
pandok ondeng au lehe~just say I was wrong,
pandokan jolma na pogos~term for poor people
pandokan paet ni juada~the bitter term is juada
pandokma aha ra mi~say what you want
pandokma anggo ndada boi~say if you can't
pandokma holong tu au~say you love me
pangalahona tudos anak metmet~he behaves like a child
panganon hipas dohot torsok~healthy and delicious food
pangatim borngin na longo~quiet night enjoyer
pangeran sian nagari bariba~prince from a foreign land
panggul ompung boru taralit~Grandma's hip sprained
panggulmiton sa beha bagak~How beautiful are her movements?
panghataion na pala sobu~very exciting conversation
panghulingi goar ama mi~what is your father's name?
panghulingi hamlet ho nuaeng~who is your girlfriend now?
pangido hepeng tu tulang~ask for money and bones
pangido ida bohi ulihu~ask to see my beautiful face
pangido jo au sagalas~ask me for a glass first
pangido santabi olo angkang~I'm sorry, brother
pangido tamiangkon hamamalum sado~ask for prayers for Andong's recovery
pangido tes manismu otik~ask for a little of your sweet tea
pangidoan asa musem ihut~I suggest you come too
pangidoan au nunga ro~my order has arrived
pangidoan na mura roha~generous offer
pangidoan nantuari nari marlakku~yesterday's offer still valid?
pangir pangke te bodat~wash your hair with monkey dung
pangkat au nari parsikkola~my status is still a student
pangkat nasida nari padenggan~their status is still being verified
pangke hopal dua pungkul~take a plane for two hours
pangke tahuluk ndada olo~wear a hat or not?
pangke utokmi saotik ondeng~just use your brain a little
pangkema aek saporluna ondeng~only use water as needed
pangkema bahasa na diantusi~use language that is understood
pangkema utokutok di ingananna~use your brain properly
pangkilalaan ndada targombar pa~the feeling is indescribable right
pangolu tongtong bonar ulubalang~Always keep the hero's spirit alive
pangoluhon derse na gotap~reviving broken hope
pangondong anggi tu angkang~greeting from brother to sister
pangondong hasian anak parompuan~girls' favorite greeting
pangula di porlak anggur~servant in the wine garden
pangurupion na tung tung~real service
panjalo na manggarar ongkos~recipient who pays the fee
panjar sadia di baen~how much down payment do you make?
panogu sisir salpu ditinggala~Goosebumps mentor has already been hijacked
panombaon na las roha~joyful worship
panompang sada dua mate~one or two passengers died
panondang di bagas haholomon~light in the darkness
panopano mambur di pipi~acne scattered on the face
panopano mi asi gasa~Your acne dear is furious
panuharma merung dohot lihi~the opposite is skinny and slim
panurat dohot buku buku~stationery and books
panurat manyadari sagokna ala~The author is fully aware that
panuturi hasintongon dohot hatigoran~defender of truth and justice
paopathon palimahon dohot parpudi~fourth fifth and last
papos au di lao~convince me to go
papos hu porsea tuho~make sure I trust you
papulikhon tondi sian tuhan~separates the soul from God
papunguhon bohal pardalanan tong~gather supplies for an eternal journey
par dohot sara ngolu~identity and way of life
par musik nunga male~the musician is hungry
parade bagas bongka marudur~prepare in terms of lining up
parade ma panganon olo~prepare the food, okay?
parade ondeng hagarangon mi~just prepare your courage
paradehon diri saburju burjuna~prepare yourself as best you can
paradihon naung nonang on~stop this conversation already
paradihon on au loja~stop this I'm tired
paraloan anak hinomit batak~resistance of the Batak people
parangan bojak sun marlange~the frogmen are ready to swim
parange mansam anak lobu~behave like a slave
parangem songon na ginagat~your behavior is like tai
parangem tu ina mi~your behavior towards your mother
parao na diiringi jesus~the ark that Jesus guided
parao nang diiringi kristus~the ark that Jesus guided
parasingan on justeru marguna~this distinction actually works
parbadaan torus na isi~the bickering continues
parbadiai goar tuhan jahoba~glorify the name of God Allah
parbadiai tuhan bagas habadiaon~glorify God in holiness
parbiar ho anak panangga~scared you puppy
parbinotoan olap harajaon jahoba~knowledge of the kingdom of God
parbue sa na tobal~the fruit is thick
parbue tarutung ganana lunjung~Durian fruit is oval in shape
parbue tarutung mangarihon suga~Durian fruit has thorns
parbue tarutung maruarna hunik~durian fruit is yellow
pardalanan ngoluhu tongtong sundat~My journey in life always fails
pardijabu tongtong manginggalhon amangamang~The wife always pampers her husband
pardompahan ama mi mamak~Your father's forehead is wide
pardomuan na apala jeges~such a beautiful meeting
pardonganon hamuna pala tipis~your friendship is very thin
pardonganon na gabe pardonganon~friendship that becomes brotherhood
pardonganon nasida mulak denggan~Their friendship is good again
pardosa na mangaraphon surgo~sinners who hope for heaven
parende ni soarana jeges~the singer has a good voice
pareso muse rampak halakna~correct the person again
pareso pa simor mi~control your emotions
pareso pa simor mi~control your emotions
parhambangon patuduhon tartontu ala~certain developments reflect that
parhapistaran sun alang alus~Scientists are ready to take responsibility
parhaseang tano na isi~make use of existing land
parhutaan ni sai sagang~the village was very quiet
paributhu sahali diatas holong~It's so noisy up there, darling
parjolo modom i ruar~first sleep outside
parjolona hita manuhor balanjo~Let's go shopping first
parjolona tuhan hita lulu~First of all we look for God
parjuangan na ndada seasea~the struggle is not in vain
parjuangan ni pir baio~The struggle was hard, bro
parjumpangan na ndada binoto~unknown encounter
parjumpangan na ndada ditahi~unplanned encounter
parkarejo hu denggan roha~my employees are kind
parkarejo panangga antong ho~Dog employee is you
parkongsian hita dohot tuhan~our communion with God
parlakku habalian nanget palano~perpetrator of saddle impingement
parlakkuon mi tu au~your treatment of me
parmahan metmet mangangguk lungun~the little shepherd cried sadly
parolopolopon balosan ali sambing~a mere celebration of recompense
parompuan bagak na tuarang~popular beautiful girl
parompuan marabit rara bagak~beautiful woman in red
parompuan na tipul roha~heartbroken woman
parpintoron dibalos aek mata~sincerity is met with tears
parpunguan bagas haulion seni~togetherness in the beauty of art
parpunguan hita na lopok~Our togetherness is the most important thing
parpunguan naeng busbus tombus~togetherness will soon be achieved
parsadaan adong ma hagogoon~unity is strength
parsadarian lao manuhor situhoron~went shopping all day
parsamean jeges na bulus~simple beautiful hostel
parsiajaran di ruar nagari~education abroad
parsiajaran ma ni pasaut~That's the lesson
parsiajaran ngolu ingkon dos~life lessons must be balanced
parsial listirik sadihari galak~Damn when does the electricity come on?
parsuma lagak alai pangalahona~It's useless to be handsome but his behavior is
partai demokrasi indonesia parjuangan~Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle
parungkil daram di tondong~breadwinner for the family
parungkil panglatu dia soarana~single fighter where is his voice?
pasada parasingan bagas pardonganon~unite differences in brotherhood
pasangap gurum haholongi pedan~respect your teachers, love your friends
pasangap ma amangamang mi~respect your husband
paserephon sopola ingkon dipatoru~humble without being humbled
pasingothon unang das mangasta~reprimand, don't insult
pasipasi pangaluaran dohot pamasuhon~remaining expenses and income
pasipma habahaba na gasagasaon~silence the raging storm
pasipma ho manggugai ondeng~Shut up, you're just annoying
pasohot anak baea baea~marry off a boy
pasombu allam gabe pujion~let insults become praise
pasombu bontar alani panopano~leave it white because of tinea versicolor
pasombu ganjang jambulan mi~let your hair be long
pasombu ma ibana martutu~let him sing
pasuda unang asi malbangalbang~spend it, don't give it slack
pasupasu au dohot holongmu~bless me with your love
pasupasu be dalanhu tuhan~bless my every path God
patalak pintu rajuman au~open the door to my sustenance
patalak pintu roha hami~open the door to our hearts,
patandahon goar au josua~let me introduce myself, my name is Joshua
patandahon nanaeng pardijabu au~introduce my future wife
patarpatar ho unang lilian~Obviously don't be influenced
patik ni si musa~commandments, regulations, laws that lead to events
patik paduahon dohot lapatanna~second commandment and its meaning
patik paduahon dohot tahina~second commandment and its meaning
patik tu ualu diorai~the eighth commandment is prohibited
patoluhon usa tanggurung tangan~third, rub the back of your hands
patoruhu roha dohot pabalgahu~humility and greatness
patu tu jolma matua~obedient to parents
patuathon sahalak anak ima~begetting a child ie
patudu di ahu tuhan~show me god
patudu jo pidong mi~show me your bird first
patudu mandapothon au tuhan~show me God
patuduma dalanmu olo tuhan~show me your way, O God
patulus dohot tadinghon ibana~let it go and leave him
patupa ruas tu an~provide..... members go there....
pature mangonai ulaon mandulo~error regarding visiting event
patut gomuk mangan torus~deserve to be fat, keep eating
paujung ae na marsigorgor~stop feeling turbulent
paulak au tu medan~send me back to the field
paulak ibana tu ahu~return him to me
pauli sada galas kopi~make a cup of coffee
pedan ai marsi mandabuhon~Why do friends tear each other down?
pedan au mangasungi au~my friend slandered me
pedan denggan hosing manaroso~good friends attack back
pedan ho anture tumpak~your friend needs help
pedan na ndang tarpasidinghon~inseparable friends
pedan on gari mangasangi~This friend is even challenging
pedan pardalanan ngolu hita~our life journey companion
pedan tullang sian pudi~friend stabs him in the back
pedan unang marutokutok negatip~Friends, don't think negatively
pege hunik dohot halas~ginger, turmeric and galangal
pege sangkarimpang halas hadang~ginger, a sprig of galangal
pege sisungut huting halas~galangal cat's whisker ginger
pesta allang dohot inum~eating and drinking banquet
piaraan ndada bolas mangalo~pets must not fight
pidong amporik pidong darapati~sparrow, dove
pidong hona pudun mangolu~birds get snared
pidongmu ai metmet olo~How come your bird is small?
pidongmu metmet loni asi~Your bird is small, darling
pidongmu ndada boi ngolu~Your bird can't live
pigapiga jolma musem manambai~some people also added
pikkiran hu marsaor aor~My thoughts are mixed
pikkiran na ndang taranju~unforgivable thoughts
pilitpilit na nasida pandok~guilty they say
pinarsinta hami tudos on~Our wish is like this
pinasa manjalo mangido gale~Jackfruit accepts asking limply
pinda di sasude bongka~emigrate for everything
pinggir digoari ma muse~the edge is named again
pinggol ho bou lubaklubak~Your ears smell like sewage
pinsur ari naung botari~sharp, it was already afternoon
pintor mardandi ma ho~you immediately sulk
pintoron pangke bahasa batak~actually use Batak language
pipi ho gok juo~your face is full of sperm
pipi ho mansam begu~your face looks like a ghost
pipi ho mansam hoda~your face looks like a horse
pipi ho mora baro~your face looks like scabies
pipi ho songon losung~your face looks like a dimple
pipi ho tudos haurakon~your face is like a genitals
pipi mi mansam bianghu~Your face looks like my dog
pipi mi tongtong bonsa~your face is always gloomy
pipi o mansam begu~your face looks like a ghost
pir sahali ho on~you are so tough
pirapira au hona bal~I got hit in the balls
pirus hatop ma mago~the virus disappeared quickly
pisang di kobun robo~bananas in the garden collapsed
piso paragat hau bagot~palm tree tapping knife
pissang ibana mananggo obukna~forbid him to cut his hair
pistar badia pasihar marsinondang~intelligent, noble, shining, radiant
pitu pulu opat ribu~seventy-four thousand
poda imbus lilin sa~please blow out the candle
poda na dilehon ibana~the teachings he gave
poda na manjamporhon ruas~teachings that confuse the congregation
podami hot bohal hu~Your advice is still my source
podomanna naung sai buruk~the mattress is very worn
pogas pardolokan gok panggomgomi~mountain spring full of officials
pogos sahali eolmu dongan~Your style is very poor, friend
pokokna au dohot sajo~Basically, I'll just go with it
pollat pa jolma sa~step on the person
pondok i ate lae~the hut is not brother-in-law
ponggol marsiajar angkang lae~brother-in-law's learning stage
ponggolon hau di tuak~pieces of wood in palm wine
pongkot bontor boi aha~What can genuine capital do?
porda pintu i husor~the door handle is turned
porhot di ginjang pangondol~stand firm under pressure
porlak pusuk na bagak~beautiful shoot garden
porlu helhul marhite papan~need to bother climbing the board
porlu hepeng bahen iuran~need money for fees
porlu parhobason na masak~need thorough preparation
porlu tumpak ndada angkang~do you need help bro?
porludo marroha tagan manghatai~the importance of thinking before speaking
porludo pardamean di indonesia~the importance of peace for Indonesia
porman porman pintor sorta~pious, honest, polite
porsea ma doge holonghi~believe me, my darling
porseama di ahu asi~trust me darling
porseama jahoba rap hita~believe that Allah is with us
porseama ni naeng manogihon~Trust me it will lead
porseama rampak ajal tuhan~believe in God's destiny
porso ndada une panghataionmu~lie, it doesn't match what you said
portibi ate punam ondeng~The world is not yours alone
portibi marsadi mangatim haulion~the world stops enjoying beauty
portibi on jongir ina~This world is cruel, mother
portibi saae ugasan nasida~the world feels like theirs
portibi songon ndang maraleale~the world seems unfriendly
pos dapot manggirdak indonesia~confident that he can advance Indonesia
pos ndada ra modom~I'm sure I don't want to sleep
posa ndada isi pangalaho~seriously there is no morals
posoposo na lagak sahali~very handsome baby
potang nari lagut tu~the evening is still lingering
poti inganan mangaradoti eme~chest for storing rice
poto hita ra diloplophon~We want to include our photo
poto jo tarus ho~take a photo of your breasts first
poto sajo boi do~just take photos
potongan une isi rajut~Appearance matches the contents of your wallet
prestasi sange saleleng manjabat~most achievements during his tenure
puas songon dia lae~How satisfied are you?
pudi bulan au gattina~I'll replace it at the end of the month
pudun mangolu dohot gota~snare with rubber
pudun mangolu ni jogi~the snare is strong
pudun na bagak marsogot~dress up pretty tomorrow
puji tuhan hipas asi~thank God you are healthy darling
pukul sia manogot digora~nine o'clock in the morning is called
pulik ondeng ma hita~we'll just split up
puna baba ho radot~You have to watch your mouth
puna mi do berengi~Look at yours
punahu musem sadia sasudena~I also have how many in total
pungga podang das pinsur~sharpen the sword until it is sharp
pungga torus hagogoon mi~continue to hone your strength
pungka sulhut lonseng parporangan~start ringing the bells of war
pungkul sadia annon botari~what time will it be this afternoon?
pungkul sadia boi do~what time is it possible?
pungkul sadia ho mangantar~what time do you deliver
punguan ni hatahata boa~General Batak Dictionary
punguan ni hatahata boa~general dictionary
punguan ni hatahata dapur~Kitchen Batak language dictionary
punguan ni hatahata nonang~conversation dictionary
punguan ni hatahata suhu~temperature dictionary
punguan ni hatahata tigor~Batak Tigor Dictionary
punguan ni hatahata tumangkas~Tumangkas Batak language dictionary
punguan ni parende punguan~combined choir
punsu ni butuha jolma~people's anuses
puntar ulu ho on~your head is broken
puntar ulu ho pamborontak~break your head you rebel
puntar ulu on binahenna~This head was broken by him
pupus ni tondihu borua~my girlfriend is a girl
purun tongtong bonar ulubalang~always turn on the hero's spirit
pusat sa olap parsintaan~The point is about love
pusatna au holong ho~Basically I love you
pusatna au na sala~Basically I was wrong
pusatna au sihol ho~Basically I miss you
pusatna ndada ra margusting~The point is, I don't want to prune
pusatna unang lupa martuani~The point is, don't forget to be grateful
pusok mi mussat tupudi~Your navel has moved backwards
pustaha boaboa mangontapi pambalian~notification letter prevents transmission
pustaha unungan anak medan~Medan boy application letter
pusupusu au giot tanggal~my heart almost stopped
pusupusu hae roha butuha~heart thigh liver intestine
putra nunga ro damang~the son has come, father
ra apoi ndada tabo~I don't want to say bad
ra au dialap asi~I want to be picked up darling
ra au galmit hurumna~I want to pinch his cheeks
ra boto pisik pabalgahon~Want to know the secret to enlarging?
ra di lango sadia~how much do you want to bid?
ra dianjak ulu mi~I want to step on your head
ra didahop dohot diumma~want to be hugged and kissed
ra dilat haurakon ho~want to lick your cock
ra ditongos raksa tahu~I want to send dipper knowledge
ra ditongos tu dia~where do you want to send it?
ra garar kareta au~I want to pay for my motorbike
ra haliang jo au~I want to go around first
ra ho au pukul~I want to hit you
ra ho tu jabuhu~do you want to come to my house?
ra hu lapo ulum~I want to shop your head
ra hu matehon daina~I want to turn it off
ra hu muningan hian~I wanted to ask earlier
ra hu ponsahon babami~I want to break your mouth
ra hu tampul rungkungmu~I want to slash your neck
ra huar barang on~I want to unpack this thing
ra hudia angkang mi~where are you going, brother?
ra hulehon tanggo alai~I want to give you a look though
ra hupastap ho panangko~I want to slap you bastard
ra isi tahi pamilian~I want to have an election plan
ra laba gari ponggol~want to make a profit but even lose
ra lao lua jo~I want to go running first
ra laok tu tondong~want to join the family
ra mamodai jolma asing~want to advise others
ra marsiajar datu aha~What kind of shaman do you want to learn?
ra marsitandaan dohot ibana~want to get to know him?
ra martapian alai ngali~I want to take a shower but it's cold
ra martumpol dohot au~want to get engaged to me
ra masuk silom olo~I want to convert to Islam
ra ndang odot dainang~want to press mom?
ra ontangan hudia katua~Where do you want to invite the chairman?
ra rimas alai pulut~I want to be angry but I'm entangled in rubber
ra sa hugalmit hurummu~I want to pinch your cheek
ra sigaret tu son~I want to smoke here
ra todo sisilon ibana~I want to show her nails
ra tu bajur tani~want to go to agricultural work
ra tu tombis balerong~want to go to Tanjung Balai
ra udut jo au~I want to continue first
radot durian di kobun~keep durian in the garden
radot hagompison ma amangamanghu~Take care of your health, my husband
radot hagompison mi ahh~take care of your health ah
radot hagompison orui mangkar~take care of your health, stay up late less
radot hasehatonmu di an~take care of your health there.
radoti bahen garar listirik~save to pay for electricity
ragam ulaula manangkup dengke~type of fishing gear
raja ho tangko tangko~king you steal steal
raja hum jorbut tongtong~The king was always sadistic
raksa ajiajian jarum raiar~sail needle magic
rambar ulaula dodo ganjang~length measuring unit
rambon aba angkangna ro~run away, his brother comes
rambon isi pangajari lagak~running away there is a handsome builder
rambon ni tobal sahali~the blur is very thick
ramot aos taon aleale~happy birthday friend
ramot ari damang sabanua~happy world father's day
ramot ari hasohoton amangamanghu~happy wedding day my husband
ramot ari hatutubum ina~happy birthday to you mom
ramot ari sabat iboto~Happy Sabbath sister
ramot ari sopola timbaho~happy no tobacco day
ramot ari tortor sabanua~happy world dance day
ramot borngin dirihu sadasa~good night myself
ramot borngin pangingani narongko~good night people of hell
ramot borngin parungkil sinamot~good night dower warriors
ramot botari inanghu tarsinta~good afternoon my beloved mother
ramot dalan dohot menak~goodbye in peace
ramot di herbang imbaru~congratulations on the new title
ramot ginjang hatutubu borum~congratulations on the birth of your daughter
ramot ginjang hatutubu posoposona~congratulations on the birth of the baby
ramot ginjang herbang mi~congratulations on your degree
ramot ginjang lakkudo dirim~congratulations on your behavior
ramot ginjang pandidion sa~congratulations on your baptism
ramot ginjang pandungdungion hamu~congratulations on your achievement
ramot ginjang pandungdungion umuli~congratulations on your best achievement
ramot ginjang panotapon malua~congratulations on sidi's confirmation
ramot ginjang parbagason boruna~congratulations on your daughter's wedding
ramot hamu hurang mardohar~congratulations, you're out of luck
ramot mangalap gogo olo~have a good rest okay?
ramot mangingani jabu imbaru~congratulations on settling into your new home
ramot manogot boruboru haholonganhu~good morning my beloved woman
ramot manogot mataniari au~good morning my sun
ramot manogot tabe nasogotan~good morning morning greetings
ramot marningot ari sorang~happy birthday remembrance
ramot marolophon ari hatutubu~happy birthday celebration
ramot marolophon hagandaan umur~Happy celebrating your age
ramot marolophon jumahat bolon~Happy Good Friday
ramot marsiulaon hasea tongtong~Enjoy your duty. good luck for the future
ramot marsonangsonang anggiat hasea~have fun good luck
ramot marujung onan pedan~happy weekend friends
ramot mauli bulung pedan~happy happiness friend
ramot mida ni mangihut~Good luck seeing the following
ramot mida ni parsidohot~good luck seeing you followers
ramot na imbaru tammat~congratulations for the new graduates
ramot olo naung tastas~congratulations, you've made it through
ramot ro bulan nopember~welcome November
ramot ro di harangan~welcome to the Jungle
ramot ro diparngoluon nata~welcome to real life
ramot ro i parbogason~Welcome to the engagement
ramot saut dokter ngingi~congratulations on being a dentist
ramot tarnok asi hu~sleep well my darling
ramot tohonan imbaru tokke~congratulations on your new position boss
ramot tu paduahon pangoli~congratulations to the bride and groom
ramot ulak taon olle~happy birthday talent
ramot ulak taon tondong~happy birthday relative
rampak anak hurang bapbap~like a rude child
rampak dohot ulaula manjamorehon~same as work!!! outsmart
rampak goarmu dohot bangkomu~the same as your name and your character
rampak marga aha tongon~What surname is it compatible with?
rampak ondeng pe daona~it's just the same, it's far away
rampak panghulingi di jabu~with who at home?
rampak rampak anggiat tarapul~I hope you enjoy it as well
rampak rampak lomo mangan~both like to eat
rampak sahali ndada suman~not similar at all
rampak tabe na dipasahat~Same greeting as given
ramuan jolma matua olo~my parents' recipe
ramun naung siholhu tuho~Forbidden, I miss you already
rangging dangka hau ni~caught on the wooden branch
rap anak hurang bapbap~with rude children
rap dohot sahalak panghasoloman~along with a fan
rap haruting jantan i~with the male snakehead fish
rap hita pature huta~together we will fix the village
rap mangarorot pomparan haduan~together to raise future offspring
rap saurdot bagas pardalanan~together on the journey
rapma aupe dang dope~neither have I
rapma iboto sa hita~the same as our brothers
rarak mabilhak nalungun borngin~a croak broke the silence of the night
rase pangke rasun bagudung~exterminate using rat poison
rasip sasude das bagebage~get rid of everything until it's finished
rasip sasude das urat~eradicate everything from the root
ratu ondeng di lotak~just put the queen on the floor
resiko suhul dohot jullong~risk of earthquakes and floods
ressok i emper jolma~noisy on people's porches
ringgas giot ma markarejo~work hard work hard
ringgas manjae lomo mangurupi~Diligent, independent, likes to help
ringgas marsiajar olo anaha~Study hard, my son
ringgas peam dohot hoga~diligent, skilled and happy
ringkot sahali soal sa~Very funny debate
rintop rintop diharat rongit~itching from mosquito bites
rio naung au ungkap~I rarely open it
rio rio rambat naposo~rarely involves young people
ripas au di matau~I died overseas
ripas la di san~he died there
ripas mirdong ho pa~you've got a headache, right?
ripas ndada boi lumba~dead can't race
ripas tarhapit ni tangan~crushed by the hand
ripur dilat gong suda~the sticky lick is gone
ris di di tanom~enough to hide
ris di tanom ondeng~just keep it hidden
ris ditatap das dia~just see where it goes
ris manghaholongi sasara so~just love silently
risi hian marhatai sa~he spoke very rudely
risi sahali amonghu on~My father is very rude
risi sahali gurum jongir~Your teacher is very rude, cruel
rittik nasai balga do~it's crazy how big it is
ro au tu pestami~come to your party
ro do nunga borngin~it was late at night
ro dohot lao salomom~come and go as you please
ro dolidoli na asing~another man came
ro ro anakna tarompas~suddenly his son. fell
ro ro hehe ma~suddenly stand up
ro ro ro muse~suddenly came again
ro ro sihol au~suddenly miss me
ro tu son mangunjun~let's try
ro tu son mardame~let's make peace
ro tu son marlumba~let's compete
ro tu son marsurak~let's cheer
ro tu son martumbuk~let's box
ro tu son pauneunehon~let's give up
ro tuson hita dopang~let's fight it
roa hian tohona au~I'm really ugly
robus aek das gurgur~boil water until it boils
rodi nama tua muse~until you get lucky again
rodina di tampahan on~so on this occasion
rodina pinahan pe tarasup~so animals are threatened
roha hu tortor didia~I mean where to dance
roha na so tarputik~silent heart plucked
roha on ate kalengkaleng~This heart is not a can
roha on sihol tuho~this heart misses you
roha roha bagas pardalanan~take care
roha roha boan motor~be careful when driving a vehicle
roha roha dalan landit~be careful on slippery roads
roha roha dohot ompungna~be careful with his grandfather
roha roha ho dijou~be careful you are called
roha roha rampak ompungna~be careful with his grandfather
roha roha unang angkat~be careful not to jump
rohahi holan bahenmu asi~My heart is only for you darling
rohahi ndada boi mangalupahonsa~my heart can't forget it
rohahi rampak tudos jo~I feel the same as before
rohaku on mangaehon boritan~My heart feels pain
roma hita mandeterihon sumbaiang~let us pray
roma hita marsi pasangaphon~let us respect each other
roma hita marsi pauliulian~let us complement each other
roma hita pareakhon hamonangan~let us go to victory
roma hita paserephon roha~let us humble ourselves
roma lao hita disuru~Come on, we are sent
roma mangan hita luhut~let's eat us all
roma ro mandapothon au~come to me
ronggang batu tungtung tanoman~gravestone hole
ronggang batu tungtung tanoman~gravestone hole
rongkap na ndada diparsinta~unexpected soul mate
rongkap na ndada diparsinta~unwanted mate
ropang naung obukhu binahenna~He made my hair fall out
roro suda alo alom~crush your opponents
ruang punsu ni butuha~anal hole
ruang pusuk na bagak~beautiful summit room
ruar somal ari on~amazing today
ruarna ondeng bagasna ungap~the outside is just rotten inside
ruas asing bagas dalihan~other members in the organization
ruasna ndada banje luhut~all the members are not in order
ruhut marmeam rap pedan~rules for playing with friends
rupana manombus tu lung~his face pierced into space
rupana suman dohot angkang~His face is similar to his brother
rurus sada tubu saribu~one falls, a thousand grows
sabarma angkang holan abatabat~Be patient, bro, it's just a test
sabarma sopola ingkon marroha~be patient without having to think
sabile kambona huar api~as small as a matchstick
sabonarna hu ndang ambul~Honestly, I can't
saburjuna hita mardomu ondeng~we should just meet
saburjuna ho mulak ondeng~you should just go home
sada ari naung torbang~one day has passed
sada bajar marmarga bolus~one surnamed teenager passed by
sada guriton margarar ngolu~one scratch costs life
sada hudon boi suda~one pot can be finished
sada na ndada dirimpu~something unexpected
sada sipareakan marsi manjullak~one goal of stabbing each other
sada sitoha na denggan~something of a good coincidence
sada sitoha na lengket~a nice coincidence
sada tondong sasudena natanata~one family is all tacky
sadasa muse sagang longo~alone and quiet
sadia arga pote ni~how much does the petai cost?
sadia arga sa kilo~how much does a kilo cost?
sadia arga unte on~how much does this orange cost?
sadia doton na didapot~how many nets did you get?
sadia gaji mi masuk~how much does your salary come in?
sadia gajina molo songoni~what is his salary then?
sadia gararan ari on~how much is today's deposit?
sadia godang ho manginum~how much you drink
sadia ihur panangga sa~how many dogs?
sadia leleng ho sasadaon~how long have you been alone
sadia leleng pinsangpinsang mi~how long is your sentence?
sadia lonsam anak hita~how many children do we have?
sadia saedo tembak ndada~how much is it done? target no
sadia solup hu isi~how many liters do I fill?
sadia solup miak sa~how many liters of oil?
sadia taon pinsangpinsang sa~how many years is the sentence?
sadihari anak baju isi~when will shirts be available?
sadihari boi margusting jambulan~when can you get a haircut?
sadihari deang tu son~when will lady come here?
sadihari di banda pa~when will he be buried?
sadihari hepeng maderder tokke~when will the money be released boss?
sadihari hita boi pajumpang~When can we date?
sadihari hita gajian kobun~when do we get paid for the garden?
sadihari hita lumba muse~when will we race again?
sadihari hita marende rampak~when do we sing together?
sadihari hita marjabu balatuk~when do we get married?
sadihari hita tole muse~when will we have sex again?
sadihari hita tontuhon on~when do we determine this.
sadihari ho huduru sijulejule~when are you going out for social gathering?
sadihari ho mamohul tanganhu~when did you hold my hand
sadihari ho mangasangi au~when did you challenge me
sadihari ho na matena~when will you die?
sadihari ho ngalian mohop~when do you have a fever?
sadihari ho tammat sikkola~when did you graduate from school
sadihari ma saedo on~when will this be finished?
sadihari manungkun sarupa dosen~when to consult with the lecturer?
sadihari meam tu tondi~when to play at Rohul
sadihari motor marlumba tu~when do cars race to
sadihari mulak tu huta~when will you go home to Banjar?
sadihari mulak tu lasiak~when will you return to Lombok?
sadihari muse haliang indonesia~When are you going to visit Indonesia again?
sadihari naeng mangaririt au~when will you propose to me?
sadihari nangkok dolok muse~when will you climb the mountain again?
sadihari ngolu tongtong tiur~when life is always bright
sadihari ni jaga pajal~when are you looking after the pond?
sadihari olap iba do~when about his account
sadihari ontangan hasohotonna dibagi~When will the wedding invitations be distributed?
sadihari sada holang muse~when's one more hose?
sadihari saedo ni sirarion~when will the meeting finish?
sadihari sun di topot~when is it ready to apply?
sadihari tu jambi tokke~when are you going to Jambi boss?
sadihari tudos na dipajojor~when as described
saehon ondeng dohot saep~just finish it patiently
saehon ulaula mi jo~finish your work first
saema au asi dohot~it's enough that I love you
saema das di san~that's enough for now
saema dipabuni bagas roha~just keep it in your heart
saema tuhan na boto~God only knows
saep adong ma dalanhu~patience is my way
saep adong ma hunsina~Patience is the key
saep au paima isi~I'm patiently waiting
saep dipunsu bolat tohang~patient at the edge of the threshold
saep jo paima isi~wait patiently
saep luhut isi parsaulianna~Be patient, there is wisdom in everything
saep saep olo diparalangalangan~be patient overseas
saep tembak ondeng hapalana~just wait and shoot him in the head
saep tongtong dohot benget~always be patient and steadfast.
saera borua pa hamletna~like a girl like a guy
sagalas tes pege mohop~a glass of hot ginger tea
sagang silonging marsada pasada~silently united
sagi jo ramuan sa~share the recipe first
sagi saotik panganon mu~share some of your food
sahalak bajar marmarga hundul~a teenager surnamed sat
sahalak batak manjangkit pining~a Batak climbs the areca nut
sahalak jolma bahasa indonesiana~an Indonesian language person
sahalak parangan bolus huhut~a soldier passed by
sahalak paredangedang hea patuduhon~a traveler once pointed out
sahali mangan rinsan sakku~once eaten, the bag is torn
sahali mardeka hot mardeka~Once free, always free!
sahali tembak pansar tais~one shot goes a long way
sahat diujung portibi on~until the end of this world
sahat hauararon na manggontam~achieved surprising success
sahat rodi hita saonari~until now
sahat sasude pinarsinta hita~achieve all our desires
sahatma ho dohot tuhan~come to God
sahatop sa au ro~I'll come as soon as I can
sahatsahat ndada dohar mangalupahonsa~so much so that I can't forget it
sahitna ngolu na ditaon~the pain of life that is felt
sahuta dongan tubu hita~in our hometown
sahuta ma hita on~we are in the same village
sai gogot di diparhatutu~very hard to believe
sai tibu anggo martapian~hurry up and take a shower
sai tibu hamuna mate~hurry up and die
sai tibu ho mulak~hurry home
sai tibu jumpangi au~hurry up and meet me
saihur porhis mabaor marraungraung~an ant drifting along
saingkondo hamuna marsi muba~you should change each other
saingkondo ho pandok ondeng~you should just say it
saksak barang ni dongan~that thing shines bro
sala alai ndang mardosa~wrong but not guilty
sala mandodo saleleng on~I've been wrong all this time
sala marhatai molo songoni~wrong to say then
sala marhatai sundat orom~speaking wrongly breaks the fast
sala sabola au marlapatan~wrong path I mean
sala sada jolma hangar~one of the people is starving
sala sada suansuanan ubat~one of the medicinal plants
sala tinggil do ho~You're wrong
salah gula aren kau~I don't think so
salaoar bagas sa ribak~her panties were torn
saleleng marsikkola das tammat~during school until graduation
salelengna di roha hami~forever in our hearts
sali baju anak baju~borrow a shirt
sali hinan ombak ido~borrow that hoe first
sali jo kareta mi~borrow your car first
salijon au hepeng jolo~borrow me some money first
salimut ndada salelengna mangohop~Blankets don't always keep you warm
salobina au ndada anto~the rest I don't care
salomo rohami ondeng hambing~Goat as you like
salpu hita gotaphon maraleale~then we decided to be friends
salpu hita maraleale martolu~then the three of us became friends
salpu nuaeng ho lahona~then now you go
sampohul aropan sajuta nipi~a handful of hopes a million dreams
samponggol duhut na manggunanggun~a piece of swaying grass
sampulu minut muse ondeng~just ten more minutes
sandok harungguan busbus manimuk~. the entire crowd immediately disappeared
sandok tondong dungkonsa ibana~the whole family except him.
sandok tudos jolma batak~he said firmly like a hobo
sang boruboru marbohi tonggi~the woman has a sweet face
sanga leleng tanggo ma~I've seen it a long time ago
sangga hami jotjot lalap~when we often neglect
sangga mallumpat tu tao~when jumping into the lake
sangga on andorang sandang~currently pregnant
sangkaphu asa isi turgasna~I mean let it do its job
santabi anggulimanna ro tarlambat~sorry the words came late
santabi angkang dipangke tokkin~Sorry bro, I'll be using it for a while
santabi hu nunga manghansitimu~I'm sorry I hurt you
santabi karejo sa pilitpilit~sorry, it's a bad job
santabi molo bangkohu sala~sorry if my behavior is wrong
santabi molo hamuna alit~sorry if you are offended
santabi ndada tingkosi padan~sorry for not keeping my promise
santabi olo hapodoman nabodari~Sorry, I fell asleep last night
santabi tu na tumua~excuse me senior
santokin ibana manopoti tingkina~suddenly he met his death
santopak rense marlehu legot~winding gravel path
saonarion di ujung ni~now it's the end
saotik hian hepeng mu~you have very little money
saotik manerbeng di ahu~glanced at me slightly
sapasang tarnata manuk on~a pair turned out to be these chickens
sapata ndada puna hepeng~due to not having money
sapata ni torus mardalan~Karma keeps going
sapata parasingan ingkon tarsirang~the consequences of the differences must be separated
sapot hali, noli, loni~once in a while
saptu ho paingot muse~Saturday you remind me again
sapu tangan ikat ikat~rope handkerchief
sapu tangan tali tali~tie-dye handkerchief
sara mambaen kue lampis~how to make layer cake
sara mambuat sa amang~how to make it sir
sara manghansitimu pala tang~the way to hurt you is perfect
saratus opat pulu lima~one hundred and forty five
saratus ribu sa sadia~how much is one hundred thousand?
saribu hadengganon naeng halupahonon~a thousand kindnesses will be forgotten
saribu kota naung hubolus~I have passed through a thousand cities
sarima donganmu na satorbang~look for friends of your same age
sarima na nimmu denggan~look for what you think is good
sarima tobu birong ido~look for the black sugar cane
saringan ni suara mi~sift your voices
saripehu hona ajiajian muse~my wife was bewitched again
sarita mangonai abahan sainganan~history of local culture
sarita na timbil limutlimuton~the most ancient history
sasada au di son~I'm alone here
sasahalak na mangulahon pangurupion~someone who does charity work
sasahali hita marpambahenan sala~sometimes we make mistakes
sasintongna au paranggap rongit~actually I'm a mosquito guard
sasintongna buea mangengger ursa~actually crocodiles target deer
sasude alangan na isi~all existing obstacles
sasude alangan pardalanan holong~all obstacles to the journey of love
sasude banua dohot langit~all continents and skies
sasudena holan tading ingoton~everything is just a memory
sasudena naeng lehononhu tuho~I will give everything to you
sasudena sala di matam~everything is wrong in your eyes
sasudena songonna sigap maruba~everything as deftly changed
satahi dohot masi mangaramoti~agree and look after each other
satolop hita marsi marsiajar~Agreed, we learn from each other
satonga rohahi bahen ho~half of my heart goes to you
satorbang sa hita dongan~our peers are friends
saudara au adong sada~I have one brother
saut aha na paasinghon~so what's the difference
saut anggo urupi dianju~so please understand
saut au ugasan ise~So who do I belong to?
saut baea baea sajati~be a real man
saut boi do aha~so what happens?
saut dapotan sandok tondong~so the whole family can join
saut datu jo dison~be a handler first here
saut engger dohot tembak~so aim and shoot
saut giot ni roha~so fun
saut hami mussat inganan~so we moved places
saut hamuna lahona dongan~So you guys go, friends
saut hita meam duda~so we play mashing
saut hita nuaeng martandang~so we are now dating
saut ho di alut~so you get massaged
saut ho lihi olo~so you're slim huh?
saut ingkon di parhasomal~so you have to get used to it
saut jolma ai holit~So why are people so stingy?
saut jolma unang sipanggaron~so people don't act
saut jorbut au panangga~so scary I'm a dog
saut lobi denggan angkang~so it's better bro
saut losok alus olo~So I'm too lazy to answer
saut ma raksa eme~so that's rice science
saut natuatua imbaru olo~so the new elder huh
saut ndang marmarga ma~so I don't have a surname
saut pardengke hinan au~I was a fisherman first
saut parkarejo hot au~so I'm a permanent employee
saut ra manghobat sasahalak~so I want to hug someone
saut ramot manghajongjonghon kalekale~so enjoy watching friends
saut sa saparbinotoan mi~so that's as far as you know
saut sadia hepengmi nuaeng~so how much money do you have now?
saut sadihari au diunung~so when did I get proposed?
saut sadihari hita marhamlet~so when are we dating?
saut sadihari ho lahona~so when are you leaving?
saut sihol nahinan ama~So I miss my late father
saut taringot tingki metmet~reminds me of when I was little,
saut tohona sian dia~So where did it originally come from?
saut tokke asuransi ondeng~just be an insurance agent
saut tuhor tali gitar~so buy guitar strings
saut unang salahon au~so don't blame me
saut urupi dianju ma~so please understand
seat obukna inang baju~cut her hair, auntie
sendor mangela torus ho~Dawet keeps teasing you
senen olo ihut daong~do you want to come on Monday?
senen olo manonggor dang~do you want to watch it on Monday?
sere intan sa taringot~the gold and diamonds are memorable
si jujur ni ari~I'm counting the days
sia sabulan au sorang~nine months I was born
siahapon hu ma on~this is my fate
siahapon jolma ndang marhepeng~the fate of people without money
siahapon pangaranto pande ombak~the fate of nomadic hoe makers
sial dang adong i~damn there's no such thing
sialapingkau manginona alit bolit~tongue feels convoluted
sian bagas lubuk roha~from the bottom of my heart
sian bangso kalimantan parbagasan~from an inland Kalimantan tribe
sian batisan purba portibi~from the eastern part of the world
sian bintang na boa~from the stars who tell
sian di ndada humutur~rather than not swaying
sian dia asal hamuna~where are you from?
sian dia di usir~from where was he expelled?
sian dia gurgar sa~where's the mess coming from?
sian dia hamuna nabodari~where were you guys from last night?
sian dia horong hita~where is our group from?
sian dia si usir~where did the expelled come from?
sian dia tuhan marhata~where did god say it from
sian donganmu manang hamletmu~from your friend or girlfriend?
sian jabu tigor torus~from the house straight ahead
sian jakarta ma au~I'm from the city of Jakarta
sian julu do nasida~from upstream?
sian manogot naung galak~it's been on since morning
sian nangkin mingor ondeng~it's just been noisy since then
sian parak hapur na~from limestone deposits
sian pulo dohot banua~from islands and continents
sian talungkup sondot bostang~from prone to supine
sian tongtong sondot tongtong~from everlasting to everlasting
sian tumpak godang dingkan~from the help of many parties
sibabi jalang angkat angkat~Bitch jumping
siboanon sa giot marende~His innate desire to sing
sibuat muko kalas nabalga~big sycophant
sibuat muko na nadumenggan~superior sycophant
sidalianna alani karejo torus~the reason is because I keep working
sidegeon pat kareta angin~stepping on a bicycle
siding au giot masuk~move aside I want to come in
siding au ra bolus~Move, I'm going to pass!
sihol alai ingkon jogi~I miss you but you have to be strong
sihol dohot goragora on~miss this call
sihol margobar na tarlalap~longing to be covered in sleep
sihol musem rampak inong~I miss you too, mother
sihol na ndang taralusi~unanswered longing
sihol ndang boi dipature~longing cannot be controlled
sihol rampak gelleng gellenghu~miss my children
sihol sa sihol siholna~I miss him as much as I miss him
sihol sahali dohot hutahu~I really miss my village
sihol sopola mardomu loas~miss you without seeing you, okay?
sihol tinompa mi tuhan~I miss your creation, God
siholhu na tarbalos hansit~I miss you in pain
siholna au rampak hamlethu~I miss my boyfriend
siholna ho rampak au~you miss me
siholna loni au asi~I miss you darling
siholna rampak hasian hu~I miss my beloved
siingoton na naung hudalani~memories that I have lived
siinumon pir mambunu dirim~liquor is killing you
sikkola loja libur bias~tired of school, bored on holiday
sikkola manonga parjolo kristen~Christian junior high school
sikkola parsitongaan parjolo kristen~Christian Middle School
sikkola saleleng pigapiga onan~school for a few weeks
silas ni roha ma~I'm happy
silehon upaupa na hutanda~gift giver I know.
silinduat ho dua ou~you're two twins, yes
silinduat holan imbar umur~twins are just different ages
siluana pangido rampak tuhan~the gift is asking God
simangunsong aha do ito~Simangunsong clan is what men greet their female siblings
simatua mangebati jabu hami~my in-laws visited our house
simor ndang hea tarpuji~emotions are never commendable
singkat ni manuhor badak~short of buying powder
singku botohon jambar bagas~inner elbow
sintahi tuho ni bontor~my love for you is sincere
sintai ma ulaon mi~love your job
sintana au rampak ho~I love you
sintana mangatasi dirina sadasa~His love is more than himself
sintong sungkana alai ambung~really awkward but easy
sinuan tunas, sinuan beu~planted bud planted uterus
sip ma nunga borngin~be quiet, it's late at night
sipanganon barang dohot pambahenan~consumption of goods and services
sipanganon na nunga pinatupa~dishes that have been provided
sipanganon na rade panganon~food serving
sipanggaron ondeng anak on~just act like this kid
sipata gogot di hatahon~sometimes it's hard to pronounce
sipata holong pasondothon banuam~sometimes love stops your world
sipata longang roha mida~sometimes surprising
sipata ngolu ingkon mamillit~sometimes life has to choose
sipata pia do au~sometimes I'm jealous
sipata roha porlu mahilolong~sometimes the heart needs to postpone
sirang muse dalan umuli~Divorce is the best way
sirarion aha hita marsogot~What meeting do we have tomorrow?
sirarion tarombo hinan hita~Let's have a genealogy meeting first
sirarion torus das bias~keep meeting until you get bored
sirsir hona nantuari didia~where did I get it yesterday?
sirsir pungkul maradi annon~right after break time
sisir au inong mambege~I got goosebumps when I heard it
sisolhot hasian angkang on~my brother's favorite cousin
sitoha di lean goar~coincidentally named
sitoha na ruar somal~what a coincidence
situak natonggi ranggiting umuli~the best bee honey
situjuon nasida naung didapot~their target had been found.
siulubalang ari na rata~flat earth
so baba mi bagudung~Shut your mouth, rat
so ho anak mansoadahon~Shut up, you disobedient child
so ho sina panangga~Shut up you Chinese dog
so justeru lobi denggan~silence is actually better
so ma ho rambu~be quiet, you guide
so so ho manjagai~you watch silently
so so jago marende~secretly good at singing
so so ondeng tarhira~just keep quiet it seems
soara harotas harotas tarbege~the sound of paper paper was heard
soara sa ndada tarbege~his voice could not be heard
soara tokke nari tarbege~the boss's voice can still be heard
soaram damo sahali angkang~Your voice is very sweet, brother
soarana jogi dohot damo~his voice is strong and melodious
soarana marbada dohot saringar~his voice clashed with the echo
soarana samak samak hubege~I could hear his voice faintly
sodap au bolas pangido~delicious, I can ask
sodap sa parbue mangga~mango is delicious
sogar diseat nasa sisilon~fresh cut to the size of a fingernail
sogo sahali hu ae~I feel so fed up
soldadu sibontar mata asa~Dutch army so
solsol dohot paet ditaon~regret and bitterness felt
somak na nari poso~young bush
somal ido alani situmpak~Usually it's because of the supporters
somalna gait rampak ho~usually having fun with you
somalna ho timbil hatop~usually you're the fastest
somalna pungkul sadia mulak~What time do you usually come home?
son asa au rambu~Here, let me guide you
son au umma hurumna~Here I kiss his cheek
sonak malela boru simangunsong~Steel tide sea water, daughter of the Simangunsong clan
sonang alai ndang tarbalos~happy but unrequited
sonang au boi marsitandaan~I'm happy to get to know you
sonang bahen pamberengan mi~relaxing for your eyesight
sonang das pudi ngolu~lasting until the end of life
sonang naeng ro diparngoluon~happiness will come in life
sonang naung lomuk ai~Relax, it's tame
sonang rap jolma tarsinta~happy with loved ones
sonang sahat ari matua~lasting until old age
sonangma ho dohot ibana~be happy with him
sonangma roha jolma matua~happy parents
sonangma rohahi mamereng ibana~my heart is happy to see it
sonangna boi marpungu marsogot~It's great to be able to gather tomorrow
songon amporik mangolgap jagung~Ã¢â‚¬Å"like a sparrow swallowing corn
songon anak parbagasan ho~like your outback child
songon bibir ni bodat~rather monkey lips
songon bintang deba mardekdehan~Some stars are falling
songon bodat ho hasian~like a monkey you darling
songon bulu sada simbohan~rather bamboo, a needle made from bamboo for threading
songon dia ma hubahen~whatever I do
songon dia ma nimmu~what do you think?
songon dia ujung na~how did it end?
songon jolma borjong ho~like the sick person you are
songon lapak ni gaol~like the tread of a banana
songon ni ma oloi~like that, right?
songon pabalikhon palak tangan~like turning the palm of the hand
songon pidong ndang marasar~like a bird without a nest
songon roda ni padati~like the wheels of a cart
songon sa ho borjong~Looks like you're sick
songonima leleng ndada tardais~it hasn't been touched for so long
songonima potongan sian hami~That's all our performance
songonima sian hujalo asi~That's all I thank you for
songonna au tar marlobian~I think I overdid it a bit
songonna portibi mambias kristen~as the world hates Christians
songonon bahasa nai tulang~like this is the language uncle
songonon maju annon songoni~like this going forward like that
sopi apel pisang honas~pineapple banana apple wine
sopola abatabat manjomaki hamonangan~without obstacles to achieve victory
sopola habut na malhot~without dense fog
sopola loja di tondim~tirelessly in your soul
sopola maniru jolma asing~without imitating others
sorang di jakarta au~I was born in Jakarta
sorang dua pulu april~born twenty april
sorbop di borngin ari~suddenly at night
sorbop hansit butuha hu~suddenly my stomach ached
sorbop holom portibi on~the world suddenly darkened
sorbop manjadi sabiji halongangan~suddenly a miracle happened
sorong ondeng pintu ido~just push the door
suansuanan bagak mostang ringgas~Beautiful and diligent flora
suasana lungun dohot sungkana~the atmosphere was silent and awkward
suba an sungkunhon hian~try asking there first
suba ditatap jorgong hita~let's look at our trap
suba ida tarus mi~take a look at your breasts
subama di mangalului pardijabu~try to find a wife
subama ho bola andorahu~try to split my chest
subama jo marbahasa batak~Try speaking Batak first
subama manggombar dohot sirimpuson~try drawing with your fingers
subang mamartida jolma matua~never argue with your parents
subang mulak tagan tembak~never go home before the target
suda harbue mangan eme~After eating rice, I eat grain
suda harbue tading eme~After the rice is finished, only grain is left
suda hepengna alani juji~ran out of money because of gambling
suda holom rondangma tiur~After rain comes sunshine
suda marlange bou tiak~after swimming the smell of urine
suda sopasopa tonggi dibalonghon~Once the sweet sepah is finished, throw it away
suda udan rondangma tambon~it's raining. come up buttocks
sugarima au jonok dainang~if I'm near mom
sugarima isi na ra~if anyone wants
suhasuha manungkun panjaloon nagara~state revenue consultation corner
suhisuhi tatap na pinjil~different point of view
suhul muse on ari~Another earthquake today
sumbangan habot ni roha~condolence donations
sumbangan jolma marujung bagas~donations from deceased people
sumolsol hubahen nasida mardua~I'm sorry I made them both
sumurung jonok tu ibana~especially close to him
sun di anduri imbar~ready to look different
sun di marsiallangan roha~ready to compete
sun di paima lompalompana~ready to wait for the cooking
sun mandalani ngolu imbaru~ready to live a new life
sundati ondeng unungan on~just cancel this application
sundut panguduti abahan batak~the next generation of Batak culture
sundut parjolo di sikkola~first generation in school
sunggul sa au roa~I realize I'm ugly
sungguli annon au olo~I'll wake you up later okay?
sungil tambon das pansar~stab the ass until it squirts
sungkalit bolis anak luangon~tough devil damn child
sungkot alani mate palito~blocked due to power outage
sungkunsungkun na ndang marguna~useless question
supaya jadi orang kota~hope for the city
suping adong ma tohap~smile is a reward
suping ho mamboan bugang~your smile brings pain
supingan ido emper ateate~a smile is a feeling...
supingan targombar i bohihu~a smile spread across my face
supingma aganan isi hasuharan~smile even if there are problems
supingma di luhut jolma~smile for everyone
supingma ditingki ho tarsahiti~smile when you are hurt
supingmu adongma longolongo harangan~your smile is the wilderness of the forest
surabaia di dia do~where is Surabaya?
surat kabar nunga ro~the newspapers have arrived. let's read
suratan ngingi bongkak antong~the gums are swollen too
suri jo jambulan ho~First comb your hair
suri jo jambulan mi~Comb your hair first
surung ni di dipabangkit~That advantage needs to be developed
surusuruan siboan habar denggan~angel bringing good news
susa au diparalangalangan ina~It's hard for me to be with my mother
susa au diparalangalangan oma~It's hard for me to go abroad, Mom
susa dabu amangoi tarompas~It's hard to fall but it's hard to fall
susa dalanmu alani dirim~Your path is difficult because of you
susa dang mangan jagal~it's hard not to eat meat
susa di mangantusi sa~it's hard to understand it
susa loni di torkan~it's hard to guess
susa sahali dapothon ho~it's so hard to find you
susa sahali martagi utang~it's very difficult to collect debts
susuda suman bangso bataui~looks like the Betawi tribe
tabanan na imbaru dipatula~newly released prisoner
tabe abak ramot manogot~Best wishes! Good morning
tabe sian parsadaan batak~Greetings from the Batak Association
tabe tanda di donganna~Greetings to his friend
tabe tuanhu nahinaholongan raja~Greetings, my lord, the king
tabo barangna balga hian~delicious, the item is really big
tabo daina gok sir~it feels good to be full of passion
tabo daina tardungdung argana~it tastes good and the price is affordable
tabo dibege aos loni~nice to hear over and over again
tabo hian habang torus~it's really nice to keep flying
tabo loni engkelmi sintahi~Your laugh is nice my love
tabo loni pining ni~the betel nut is delicious
tabo ma dungkon dai~it's delicious, so taste it
tabo ma molo jonok~it's nice to be close
tabo musem bahenan ho~It's delicious what you make too
tabo ni di sambal~it's delicious with chili sauce
tabo sahali edang sa~the tour is really nice
tabo sahali lompalompa ina~Mom's cooking is delicious
tabo sahali saut aspal~it's really nice to make asphalt
tabo tamba muse sambal~delicious with more chili sauce
tabodo da halak utara~It's good for northerners
tading halilum di ingoton~just your image in memory
tading i pahou ondeng~just stop
tading mangetong pigapiga ari~just a few days left
tading saotik pulsa hu~I only have a little credit left
tading siingoton halung sa~all that remains is the memory of the necklace
tagan au sipak ho~before I kick you
tagan dibalonghon huduru nagara~before being thrown out of the country
tagil bona ni hau~tree cutting
tahihon sasudena tagan mangalangka~plan everything before moving forward
tahu sian dasardasar kalapa~dipper from coconut shell
tailihon ende soaram hubege~I hear your voice lyrics
tais di topi hampung~far on the edge of the village
tais hu mida ungkil~far away I see suffering
tais lobi doho ho~you are much more honorable
tais muse pardalananna damang~Dad has a long way to go
taktak hoda torsok sahali~very delicious horseback riding
tallik ma anggo barani~Slash it if you dare
tallik pa ulu sa~slash his head
talu monang adopi mardua~Win and lose against both
talu torus meam domino~keep losing playing dominoes
talup molo jolmai mabiar~It's natural for humans to be afraid
tama hami tu ama~We respect you sir
tamba badia dohot ampa~become more pious and wise
tamba bagak musem ho~you are even more beautiful
tamba balga tamba jekjek~the bigger the naughtier
tamba ganjang sajo rantena~just make his beard longer
tamba lomak olo nuaeng~more fertile now
tamba tabotabo ma jo~Add fat first
tambon mi rintop olo~Your ass is itchy, isn't it?
tambonmu ondeng dibereng ibana~He can only see your ass
tambonna birong dohot bou~His ass is black and smelly
tambun lao gambir nari~collected away the leaves of the vines still
tambun sian dia doho~where are you from?
tammat taon sadia sikkola~What year did you finish school?
tanaman ihur ihur ilik~lizard tail plant
tanda haadongon simangot badia~evidence of the presence of the holy spirit
tanda ibana buhai marhuaso~a sign that he is starting to come to power
tanda tandi jolma batak~characteristic of Batak people
tandai hagaleon alo hamu~recognize your opponent's weaknesses
tangan ibana sahat marmudar~his hands were bleeding
tanggal piga lae tubu~what date was lae born?
tanggo au lensem mantan~Look at me teasing my ex
tanggo panimpuli puna mi~See your conclusion
tanggo tudos aha ganana~see what it looks like
tangiang andorang mangadopi parungkilon~prayer when facing struggles
tangiang dainangi na bongak~my great mother's prayers
tangiang ina andorang tingki~Mother's prayers all the time
tangiang jo tagan borhat~pray first before leaving
tangiang sending dohot pasupasu~prayer of sending and blessing
tangiang sian sabiji bangko~prayer from a tradition
tangianghi tongtong manghombari mi~My prayers always come to you
tangianghon ma jolma matua~pray for parents
tangiangni annon molo ingot~I'll pray later if I remember
tangihon torsa guru mi~listen to your teacher's story
tangihonma 4 musa gurum~listen to your teacher's numbers
tangis hu marudut dohot~My crying continued
tangkas ida pangkat au~definitely look at my post
tangkas isi saridondon sa~there must be dirt in it
tangkas marbogas dohot hepeng~definitely related to money
tangkas naeng godang abat~there will definitely be many obstacles
tangkas nasida na surathon~they must have registered
tangkas pala torsok sahali~it must be very delicious
tangkasna ate sopola boban~certainly not without burden
tangkasna taon on mulak~definitely coming home this year
tangke di mambola hau~an ax for splitting wood
tano aek uarar songti~the land of the mighty Jaya
tano martua tano maradat~lucky land, civilized land
tanom hau sigaret begu~plant marijuana trees
tanom sadasa hilalahon sadasa~feel it yourself
tape ndada ido hamsar~but not so smoothly
tar asing anggi on~This little brother is a bit different
tar pangido di lotak~kinda asked for it at the shop
tarabuk ingkon adong hepeng~you have to have money
tarae benda das manogot~it felt slow until morning
tarae longo ari on~feels quiet today
taranju dirim sarupa hu~forgive you and me
tarasup karejo tok ulu~threatened with headaches at work
taratara timbo ekonomi gale~high appetite weak economy
tarbarita tu sandok portibi~famous all over the world
tarbege sondot pasisir apotan~heard as far as the south coast
tarbereng sian margana ondeng~It can be seen from the surname alone
tardapot pigapiga pareso damang~there are a few corrections
tardapotsa langkup sarupa pardijabu~caught cheating on his wife
tardege pande siat annon~stepped on by the loader later
targasip bagas halipeon oto~trapped in stupid lies
targora nari sirang sursar~are still separated
tarhilala marabatabat paimahon ibana~It felt like centuries of waiting
tarhira au ndada boto~I don't think I know
tarhira dang sanga on~I don't think I have time for this
tarhira ho on rittik~looks like you are crazy
tarhira lam leleng on~it seems like it's getting longer
tarhirim di paduahon halina~disappointed for the second time
tarhirim na paduahon halina~disappointed the second time
tarhirim na pande bagas~deep disappointment
tarhurim ho ro mulak~hope you come back
tarhurim tu diri sadasa~hope for yourself
taringot huta di son~remember the village here
taringot tongtong nandigan pajumpang~always remember, when we meet
taringot turiturian hita rap~remember our story together
tarlambat annon hita lahona~we'll be late then we'll go
tarlambat sadia minut nangkin~How many minutes late was that?
tarmangan roha susa dipature~being consumed by the heart is difficult to control
tarnata diruar panagaman hu~it turned out to be beyond my expectations
tarnata ibana manundur au~Turns out he was talking about me
tarnata naung muba panghilala~apparently his feelings have changed
tarnata paet na huhilala~it turned out to be bitter I guess
tarnok ma puji tuhan~I'm asleep, thank God
tarpangan paet ni dinamarsirang~consumed by the bitterness of separation
tarpapungu tarsongon aropan parbadia~gathered like holy hope
tarpasiat ma hirimonna ni~that hope was fulfilled
tarporot di mata hailna~caught in the hook
tarpuji denggan pintor tongam~commendable, honest, authoritative
tarsingotna naung sadia ruas~I remember how many members there were
tarsor roha niba menak~my mind is calm
tarsorang sian tondong bulus~born from a simple family
tarsorop ranggiting ho olo~You got stung by a bee
tarsurat bagas soldadu kristus~enlisted in the army of christ
tartanom bagas i rohangku~deeply embedded in my heart
tartanom bagas lubuk rohahi~embedded in the depths of my heart
tartanom sa motor hu~my car was buried
taru dohot dialap tujabu~delivery and pick up at home
taruli las ni roha~get happiness
tarup naung di sor~the roof has been cast
tarus ho dang adong~your breasts are missing
tau sahali hamuna mardua~you two are so compatible
tempo ndada isi hepeng~holidays don't fill you with money
tempo parpudi tutung lomang~last holiday grilled lemang
tempo rap jolma tarsinta~holiday with loved ones
terimakasih dohot dialusi rimrim~thank you and answer the same
tiak ondeng ndada tigor~just not urinating straight
tiasihon topana na mambur~ignore its scattered shape
tigor roa buruk bodat~fair ugly, bad, monkey
tigor tu dongan manisia~fair to fellow human beings
tigor tu luhut jolma~fair to everyone
tihas late nari dipahan~jealousy is still maintained
tihas porman natana sega~pious nature is actually damaged
tijur sa ni asi~His saliva is darling
timbil ho holan manggerdek~at most you're just flirting
timbil muningan di donganna~most ask his friends
timbil tabo di dilat~best to lick
timbo hian daging mu~your height
timbul torus bangsohu mardeka~Keep moving forward, my nation is independent
timbul torus batak hu~keep moving forward my darling
timbul torus subang mundur~keep moving forward, never give up
tingki au marsilalioang tuho~when I call out to you
tingki holak, dopa au~my future
tingki logo tingki pariama~dry period harvest time
tingki maradi na mandosdos~boring rest time
tingki na diisi orong~time filled with complaints
tingki ndada isi panompang~when there are no passengers
tingki ngolu parpudi mangalap~death comes
tingki ni au ngalian~I was cold at that time
tingki pinahan piaraan mi~your pet's time
tingki salpu mi holom~your past is dark
tipu do au ro~Did I come?
tipul mago tubu mardangkai~broken, lost, grows branched
tipul roha rampak ibana~heartbroken with him
tiroi boasa adong aek~explain why there is water
tiroi ma unang lok~explain it, don't give up
tiruan tangiang pangondianon bagas~example of deep intercessory prayer
tiruna hombar jabu au~for example my neighbor
tiur tiur rura on~this valley is bright
tiurma bagas ngolu hita~bring light into our lives
tobok manghaholongimu sopola maradi~sincerely love you without pause
todoan umuli tu indonesia~the best choice for Indonesia
toho do ni hatami~that's true what you said
tois ibana on halakna~what an arrogant person he is
tok mamikkirhon hangoluon on~dizzy thinking about this life
tok ulu mi pa~you have a headache, right?
tokke loja anture modom~Tired boss needs sleep
tokkin au reso jo~I'll check for a moment
tokkin laos muba daldal~After a while it turned gloomy
tokkin muse au mangeahi~I'll catch up in a moment
tokkin muse udan siang~soon the rain will stop
tokkin nai mandapot gaji~I'll get my salary soon
tole angkup amangamang pardijabu~sexual intercourse between husband and wife
tole muse putik do~having sex is also a pick
tolon leleng hian balosna~I swear it took so long to reply
tolon sapata pitu pompar~seven derivative karmic oath
tolopan na au bagihon~I give my consent
tolopan pardonganon soridadu holangholang~military friendship agreement between
tolu ari manjonok orom~three days before fasting
tolu bajar marmarga bolus~three surnamed teenagers passed by
tolu dongan saama minar~three cheerful brothers
tolu hata bilangan tangga~three words count rice fields
tombak tombak do au~forest forest am I
tombus luhut na diparsinta~achieve everything you want
tompu panghuling soara domdom~suddenly there was a roar
tomu au tu jaua~Follow me to Java
tomu taon dohot hamubaon~Welcome the year with change
tona babi sada bagian~order one portion of pork
tona sahala ompung doli~grandfather's charisma message
tonahu ndada marali, maralus~My message was not answered
tondi batak au manombo~My Batak soul is dying
tondi batak au manombo~my Batak soul relapsed
tondi batak hu manombo~My Batak soul is dying
tondi marlomo mamuji mi~the soul rejoices in praising you
tondi na ndang manontu~uncertain soul
tondi na tardais onpe~a soul so touched
tondi panglatu hu marsigorgor~My single soul is in turmoil
tondihu jeges joujou dirim~My beautiful soul calls you
tondina ro mandapothon ho~his spirit comes to you
tondong adongma na dilopokhon~family comes first
tondong boasa masi unsil~Why do families exclude each other?
tondong ho pangingani narongko~your family is in hell
tondong na gok biasbias~hateful family
tondong nipi dohot sonang~dream and happy family
tondong pardijabu angkang martinodohon~wife's family, brothers and sisters
tongdo nari tarmali tondi~still traumatized
tongdo tonggi i baba~still sweet in the mouth
tonggi loni bohi mi~your face is sweet
tonggi sahali tudos hatahatam~very sweet like your words
tonggi sopasopa i bolong~it's so sweet that it's thrown away
tonggohon au hatop mangeahi~Pray for me to catch up quickly
tonggohon karejom ulahon tangiangmu~pray for your work do your prayer
tonggohon ondeng tigatiga lakku~just pray for good sales
tongkin muse au tujabu~I'll be home in a moment
tongkin muse modom bebe~Soon I'll be sleeping soundly
tongkin muse pamilian peresiden~The presidential election is coming soon
tongon bahen buat poto~suitable for taking photos
tongos ma tu hapas~send it to kapok
tongos ruas sada jo~Send member one first
tongos tu ama ondeng~just send it to dad
tongoshon poto buku angkang~send a photo of your book, bro
tongtong dalan ngomngom tuhan~keep walking before God
tongtong giot mangallang halode~always wanted to eat ass
tongtong holan alimos mi~always just your shadow
tongtong mambunu ateate diri~always killing your feelings
tongtong marapiapi demi tondong~always enthusiastic for the sake of the family
tongtong marpanganju dohot ateate~always give in to feelings
tongtong rap baoa batak~stay with the Batak guy
tongtong taralimos bohi mi~always imagine your face
torangdo hita huduru annon~explain, we'll come out later
torbang loni mangangku silom~It's too much to confess to Islam
torop olo sataon sahali~festive yes once a year
torsa anak boru duiung~mermaid story
torsahon di dongan mi~tell your friends
tortor dasardasar di parmeaman~shell dance for the game
tortor na jeges hian~very good dance
torus au ndang dapotan~then I didn't get it
torus bodarina hita mangkar~then we stay up late at night
torus didia ho tading?~so where do you live?
torus ho matehon ni~then you turn it off
torus mardalan gabe bistok~keep going and be smart
torus marjuang nagara hatutubuhu~keep fighting for the country of my birth
torus tingki ni donganna~Then, at that time it was his friend
torusma mangapuli luhut jolma~keep entertaining everyone
torusma marsi mangaramoti anakanakhu~continue to look after each other my children
torusson lulu hamlet imbaru~keep looking for a new girlfriend
torusson parjuangan mi angkang~keep up your struggle brother
tota tombom rampak au~fistfight with me
tu ahu mansut jadina~it makes me melt
tu anak na sihahaan~to the oldest child
tu andor purba tua~to the stem of a plant that creeps east of luck
tu gareja hita inang~to our church mom
tu hami di marpungu~for us to gather
tu ise ho manalipon~who did you call
tu ise hu aluhon~to whom do I complain?
tu ise ingkon aluhononhu~to whom should I complain?
tu jolma jolma jugul~to stupid people
tu julu mambahen handang~upstream make a fence
tu laut ma i~that's the sea
tu laut ma sude~all into the sea
tu na matua pajagarhon~to the elderly respect
tu sidikalang manuhor durian~Go to Sidikalang to buy durian
tu ulaon jolma sahuta~to a village party
tu ulaon parbagason jo~to the wedding first
tuak dibahen saut gula~sap is made into sugar
tuak sada solup angkang~one liter of wine, brother
tuak sada solup tulang~Uncle's one liter of palm wine
tuan doli tingki saonari~current young master
tuan poso hita on~our young master
tuan suhut ni huta~host of the villages
tuani ma anggiat hamsar~thank God, hopefully it goes smoothly
tuani ma hita hipas~thank goodness we are healthy
tuat di jolo ondeng~just get off at the front
tuat mambola langit borngin~descended across the night sky
tuba sahali amonghu on~My father is very fierce
tubu ni boru simangunsong~the daughters of the Simangunsong clan were born
tubu parbue na denggan~grows good fruit
tudiape naeng hu lulu~wherever I will look
tudos aek mandohoti rura~like water following a valley
tudos anak anak pangalahohi~like a child to me
tudos anduhur na lambang~like a hollow turtle dove
tudos bodat di harangan~like a monkey in the jungle
tudos bolis mangan eme~like a devil eating grain
tudos halalas bagas tondihu~like joy in my soul
tudos ido ma hian~that's the rule
tudos isi na manolang~like there's something wrong
tudos jo ibana manghaholongihu~like he used to love me
tudos na ndada disikkolahon~like those who were not schooled
tudos ndada isi sir~like there is no passion
tudos on lokma songonon~like this, let it be like this
tudos on ondeng parengkelhon~just laugh like this
tudos ondok na jagar~like a beautiful rhythm
tudos panangkasion au nantuari~as I explained yesterday
tudos ra marlumba ido~like going to race
tudos sibagur didondoni logo~like a frog hit by a drought
tudos sibolis au ida~like the devil I see
tudos tarlola di tolonan~like it's stuck in the esophagus
tudos tokke ondeng lehengna~He just acts like a boss
tuhan balang bagas holongna~God is faithful in his love
tuhan dais daging au~God touch my body
tuhan gomgomi ma tongtong~God protect you always
tuhan jahoba mamasumasu ho~God Allah bless you
tuhan jesus mangangkupi ho~God Jesus is with you
tuhan jesus pande ramot~Lord Jesus Savior
tuhan jesus pargomgom hu~Lord Jesus is my protector
tuhan jesus tangkas manjama~God Jesus will definitely touch you
tuhan lean hami hagogoon~God, give us strength
tuhan ma asal hagogoonhi~God is the source of my strength
tuhan ma parmahan hu~God is my shepherd
tuhan maga silehon sulusulu~God is the giver of guidance
tuhan mamasumasu pandidion targora~God bless the baptism
tuhan maminsang ulok targora~God punished the snake
tuhan mamparateatehon hita sasudena~God watches over us all
tuhan mangangkupi dohot mangamoti~God accompany and protect
tuhan mangangkupi hamuna mardua~God be with you both
tuhan mangaramoti ngolum musem~God preserves your life too
tuhan mangasi mi damang~God loves you dad
tuhan manjama pedan au~God touched my friend
tuhan na mangalean hadumaon~God who gives prosperity
tuhan na manontuhon ngolukku~God determines my life
tuhan na ruar biasa~amazing god
tuhan ni denggan uhal~God is good when talking about Batak
tuhan ondeng maga panesa~God alone is merciful
tuhan pamalumhon hangoluon huriana~God restores the lives of his people
tuhan pasadama aganan pinjil~God unite even though we are different
tuhan tangkas mangompa torus~God will definitely carry you on
tuhan tongtong mangalehon holongna~God always gives his love
tuhan unang sala dokhon~God, don't say it wrong
tuhan urupi sungguli ibana~God, please wake him up
tuhan urupima sungguli haporseaon~God, please, awaken faith
tuho ndang naeng manghansitimu~it won't hurt you
tuhor karsis di nopember~buy tickets for november
tuhor paket edang pulo~buy an island tour package
tuhor sada bagian dohar~buy one portion
tuhor sada balut gambiri~buy a pack of candlenuts
tuhor sandiri molo songoni~buy it yourself then
tuhor tali di mangihot~buy rope to tie
tuhorhon au aek inum~buy me drinking water
tuhorhon jajan au dongan~buy me snacks, friend
tuk au dalan pat~I'm tired of walking
tuk bibir hu manghatahon~my lips are tired of saying
tuk ho mangiup ido~you're tired of blowing it
tuk luga kareta angin~tired of riding a bicycle
tukkar bahasa hita angkang~exchange our languages, brother
tulak hinan gargaji ido~return the saw first
tulang dia tongosan ho~Uncle, where's your delivery?
tulang ni angka hitir~the uncle was scared
tulangna jolma jabu ido~his uncle is the man of the house
tulus di jolo matana~taking place before his eyes
tulus ndang marbatas tingki~timeless sincerity
tulus sopola musa tuhu~proceeded without serious incidents
tumagon di jabu ondeng~it's better to just stay at home
tumagon mangopi jo ma~It's better to have a drink first
tumagon modom nunga borngin~It's better to sleep at night
tumagon pillit na tangkas~It's better to choose the definite one
tumaon sihol ni bonton~holding back longing is hard
tumpal suga na jongir~cruel crown of thorns
tumpalmu tung balga tuau~Your grace is truly great for me
tumpalna isi bahen mi~the gift is for you
tundal ni saingkondo ho~upside down it should be you
tunduk mi au beha~what do you think of me?
tung balga ho debatahu~You are truly my God
tung jeges bagak marlinang~really beautiful and radiant
tung jorbut dalanmu asi~How sadistic you are, dear
tung mangalojai ari on~really tiring today
tung ruar somal atim~it's incredibly delicious
tung sanggih tehnologi on~This technology is really sophisticated
tung sara sa lehe~however the method is wrong
tung tanganmu ambang sahali~your hands are really light
tung torsa sa luhut~whatever the story is
tungtung baba tagan barsion~cover your mouth when sneezing
tungtung pidato olap haiason~closing speech about cleanliness
tungtung sabiji ulaon parbagason~closing a wedding party
tunjang bal di hajolmaon~football for humanity
tupa alangan na isi~maybe there are obstacles
tupa au naeng ambolong~maybe I'll be wasted
tupa au ndangma tang~maybe I'm not perfect
tupa di tangko bolis~maybe it was stolen by the devil
tupa hala dua pulu~maybe the twentieth
tupa kopi dohot kue~ready coffee and cake
tupa mardalan sasara marrentaan~may run simultaneously
tupa martagi utang ulan~maybe collect a debt of gratitude
tupe asi mandandan holong~knit love weave love
tuptup na naeng hubahen~the decision I will make
turgas dohot alang alus~duties and responsibilities
turiturian anak boru duiung~mermaid story
turiturian paet ni dinamarsirang~a bitter story of separation
turiturian turiturian torsa turiturian~fairy tales, legendary stories
turpuk bibel dohot lapatanna~Bible verses and their meanings
turpuk turpuk na jeges~beautiful verses
tutu do ni angkang~Is that right brother?
tutu gambiri dohot andaliman~grind the candlenuts and andaliman
tutu manang ndada tutu~true or not true
tutu otik dia punam~That's right, which one is yours?
tutu sahali sioloan laos~That's right, a role model indeed
tutung lomang di huta~grill lemang in the village
tutung lomang dohot dongan~grill lemang with friends
tutung panutungan dengke laut~grilled sea fish
tutung unang lehon ampun~burn. don't forgive
tutup pintu nunga borngin~close the door it's night
tutup ulu salaksak mi~cover your bald head
ua anggo ra dipareso~Please correct it if you want
ua dibuha dohot diontang~please open and be invited
ua jaha dohot dibalos~please read and reply
ua patandahon diri mi~introduce yourself please
ua tutung haminjon tutungma~Please burn incense
uarna dengke ni hunik~the color of the fish is yellow
uba roha hu tuhan~change my heart God
ubat aha na diinum~what medications to take
udan damporna marbogas rosu~rain makes it good to have sex
udan doras sian nangkin~it's been raining heavily since earlier
udan doras sillam mangaroro~heavy rain, lightning strikes
udan ma na doras~it's raining heavily
udan sa doras hian~the rain is very heavy
udan saut masihol dahopanmu~the rain makes me miss your hugs
ugasan na ndada sintong~things that are not true
uhal godang dok risi~Talking about Batak, there is a lot of harsh language
ujungna manjumpanghon pasanganmu itohu~finally found your match my brother
ujungna nasida manongos uakkil~finally, they sent a messenger
ulahonma hatigoran dohot hasintongon~do justice and truth
ulang baen gusar au~Traveling makes me come together
ulang di angan angan~wandering in dreams
ulaon amonghu parkarejo partikulir~My father's job is a private employee
ulaon na tar daging~formed party
ulaon pangambe ulos mangonai~Ulos waving event regarding
ulaula hu be arina~my work every day
ulaula pilat ho maraek~Your genitals are wet
ulaula pital parompuan balga~large female vital organ
ulaula sa marhatahata torus~his work continues to grumble
ulaula tarbahen sian logam~tools made of metal
uli basa nama utus~the front is just really pretty
ulina au tunduk damang~How beautiful do I think dad is?
ulina ina simatua hu~my beautiful mother-in-law
ulina losung hurummu asi~Your dimples are beautiful, darling
ulina nanaeng pardijabu hu~my sweet future wife
ulos kaen hasintaan hita~ulos, our beloved fabric
ulu ama hu ponsahon~I broke my father's head
ulu au marmudar ndada~My head is bleeding, isn't it?
ulu ho gonong sahali~your head is very round
ulu ho hu ponsahon~I'll break your head
ulu ho ndada marutok~your head is brainless
ulu ho ni ungap~your head is rotten
ulu ho sihit sambola~your head is tilted to one side
ulu marhilala ra puntar~my head felt like it was going to explode
ulu mirdong butuha hansit~headache, stomach ache
ulu sungar manatap langit~head looked up at the sky
ulu tondong na diensenghon~proud head of the family.
ulubalang i hopal bajo~heroes on a rogue's ship
ulum pangido i ponggol~your head needs to be cut off
um timbo para sian~higher higher than
umma asi sian au~sweet kiss from me
umma sajoma anggo ido~just kiss it then
umpasa na pala denggan~very good proverb
umpasa na pala jagar~very beautiful proverb
umpasa na timbil jagar~the most beautiful proverb
umpasa tihus bagas salimut~Batak proverb enemy in a blanket
unang adong be badan~no more bodies
unang adong na muruk~don't be angry
unang aga saut panggeno~don't be proud to be a destroyer
unang ajari dengke marlange~don't teach fish to swim
unang ampehon di jonok~do not place it near
unang annon barutu angkang~Don't get lumps, bro
unang ardo olap hangoluonhu~don't worry about my life
unang asal puas hata~Don't just be satisfied with your words
unang asi hondur katua~don't give the chairman any slack
unang asi malbangalbang asi~don't give it any slack, darling
unang asi malbangalbang tondong~Don't give slack to your relatives
unang baen gusar au~don't make me join
unang bahen ila jolma~don't embarrass people
unang bahen nagaor dongan~Don't make a mess, friend
unang bahen soksok torus~don't keep getting annoyed
unang bias mangajari au~don't get bored teaching me
unang bile pa batak~Don't underestimate Batak
unang bolushon tampahan on~do not miss this opportunity
unang bori boi dipature~Don't worry, it can be arranged
unang borngin loni mulakna~Don't come home late at night
unang das hita marsirang~don't let us get divorced
unang das isi arsak~don't make any complaints
unang das mataniari tarlonop~don't let the sun go down
unang di anju anju~don't caress
unang di asi lambas~don't give it loose
unang di gadis hamu~don't sell you
unang di lea ibana~don't insult him
unang di tuhas au~don't accuse me
unang di tuhas olo~don't be accused
unang dibalonghon mudar manukna~Don't throw away the chicken blood
unang diburbari anak jolma~Don't destroy other people's children
unang digogo olo amang~Don't force it, sir
unang diingot annon nipi~Don't remember the dream later
unang diloplophon goar au~Don't enter my name
unang dipaian i parbagasan~do not place it inland
unang ditangani ngolu jolma~Don't take care of people's lives
unang ditatap sian ruarna~Don't look at the outside
unang do hita hebo~let's not be noisy
unang dophon ambung sasahalak~don't take anyone lightly
unang durak ma dongan~don't be shy friend
unang gabus i au~don't lie to me
unang gabus ma panangga~don't lie dog]
unang gabusi roha hita~don't lie to our hearts
unang ganggu be au~don't bother me anymore
unang gantung holong do~Don't hang on to love
unang gantung holong hi~don't hang up my love
unang gaor nunga borngin~don't be noisy it's late
unang godang pangidoanmu asi~Don't ask too much dear
unang gogo gogo hatana~don't speak loudly
unang guit arga dirihu~don't touch my pride
unang hail simor au~Don't provoke my emotions
unang hata sajo hasianhu~just don't say it my darling
unang hea di mundar~never turn away
unang hea ho bojak~never say a frog
unang hea ho hilalahon~never feel it
unang hea jumpa hamu~never meet you
unang hea muba bangkona~never change your nature
unang hea muba puang~never change, friend
unang ho antoi ardoanhu~don't interfere in my business
unang ho ardo hangoluonhu~don't take care of my life,
unang ho asi aropan~don't give hope
unang ho asi hondur~don't give it any slack
unang ho ehet torus~don't keep teasing
unang ho elat olo~don't be jealous okay?
unang ho lensem au~don't make fun of me
unang ho maenhon muse~don't play it again
unang ho mangehet olo~don't make fun, okay?
unang ho manghatai risi~don't speak harshly
unang ho muba olo~don't change, okay?
unang ho pardulihon ibana~don't mind him,
unang ho salik au~don't slander me
unang ho tombis au~don't touch me
unang holan janji daba~Don't just make promises
unang holit la dongan~Don't be stingy, friend
unang humationg bapbap torus~don't worry, keep beating
unang humationg timbul torus~don't worry, keep going
unang iburu pitung asi~Don't be blindly jealous darling
unang ihut laok ardoanhu~Don't interfere in my business
unang isi na rambon~don't run away
unang jekjek saut parompuan~Don't be naughty as a girl
unang jongir loni tulang~Don't be cruel, uncle
unang la ho marsak~don't be sad
unang lahang taradop arta~Don't be greedy for wealth
unang langkup asi lapatanan~don't cheat darling translation
unang lao sian sintahi~don't go away from my love
unang leas ma aba~don't be trivial
unang lola ibana punahu~Don't disturb him, he's mine
unang lolos marsogot olo~don't forget tomorrow okay?
unang lomo mandabuhon pedan~Don't like to put friends down
unang lomo marhusip dipudi~Don't like to whisper behind your back
unang lomo marsurasura roa~Don't be prejudiced
unang lomo sesa tona~don't like delete messages
unang lomos di marudut~feel free to continue
unang lupa asal pangidoan~Don't forget your origins
unang lupa baritai sahatopna~Don't forget to let me know as soon as possible
unang lupa boan santisanti~Don't forget to bring offerings
unang lupa boan upaupa~don't forget to bring a gift
unang lupa buku au~don't forget my book
unang lupa diburi olo~Don't forget to clean it
unang lupa ditamba andaliman~Don't forget to add andaliman
unang lupa ebati hami~don't forget to visit us
unang lupa ebati ho~don't forget to visit you
unang lupa gokhonna amang~Don't forget the invitation, sir
unang lupa inum tambarmu~don't forget to take your medicine
unang lupa karejoi angkula~don't forget to exercise
unang lupa mangan banda~don't forget to eat the grave
unang lupa mangan inong~Don't forget to eat, Mom
unang lupa marsogot pangir~Don't forget to wash your hair tomorrow
unang lupa martangiang annon~don't forget to pray later
unang lupa martangiang tagan~don't forget to pray before
unang lupa martata suping~do not forget to smile
unang lupa martobo lomo~don't forget to subscribe like
unang lupa radot hasehatonmu~don't forget to take care of your health
unang lupa silua tahina~Don't forget the souvenirs
unang lupa sumbang ende~Don't forget to contribute songs
unang lupa tuli mangopi~Don't forget to stop by for coffee
unang lupa tuli tokkin~don't forget to stop by for a moment
unang lupahon au amang~don't forget me sir
unang lupahon tano hatutubum~do not forget your native land
unang ma bolushon au~don't miss me
unang ma di parengkelhon~don't laugh at it
unang ma heu heu~don't be lethargic
unang ma ho mengkel~don't laugh
unang ma ho muruk~don't be angry
unang ma ho teal~don't be arrogant
unang ma jugul ho~don't be stupid
unang ma manggerdek elek~don't flirt
unang mabaor bagas portibi~don't get lost in the world
unang mambahen roha niba~don't make up my mind
unang mambias sarenta jolma~do not hate fellow humans
unang manaroso torus marusaha~Don't attack, keep trying
unang manerbeng baoa asing~don't look at other men
unang mangalo beta modom~don't argue, let's sleep
unang mangalo ho bagudung~don't fight you rat
unang mangalo tu amangamang~Don't fight your husband
unang mangalupahon hadengganon tuhan~Don't forget God's goodness
unang mangande unang mandele~don't give up, don't despair
unang mangasanghon suasana roha~don't rely on mood
unang mangasta jolma metmet~Don't underestimate little people
unang mangeur panghataion olo~Don't divert the conversation, okay?
unang manggugai ngolu hami~don't disturb our lives
unang mangkar nunga borngin~don't stay up late at night
unang mara muse olo~don't get angry again okay?
unang marbada ma hamuna~don't fight, you guys
unang marende hansit pinggolhu~Don't sing, it hurts my ears
unang margabus to bapa~Don't lie to papa
unang margere musem muse~don't joke around anymore
unang marhamlet muse ho~don't date anymore
unang marhata na buruk~don't say bad things
unang marhatai babami ni~don't talk with your mouth
unang marhatai rarat ma~don't ramble
unang marlobian musem ma~Don't overdo it either
unang marpahu hatop hatana~don't speak too fast
unang marpahu ihut laok~don't get too involved
unang marpahu leleng mangkar~don't stay up too long
unang marpahu pir mamikkirhon~don't think too hard
unang marpahu tangging mangiup~don't blow too hard
unang marpahu timbo nipina~Don't dream too big
unang marsak tuhan mangangkupimu~don't be sad, God is with you
unang marsaor uarna asing~do not mix other colors
unang marsiallangan roha apala~don't be so hostile
unang marsurasura buruk ma~don't think badly
unang marsurasura na roa~Don't have bad prejudices
unang marsurasura roa ma~Don't think it's bad
unang martumbuk hansit do~don't box, it hurts
unang meam mereng torus~don't keep playing around
unang modom di lante~don't sleep on the floor
unang modom torus karejona~don't sleep and keep working
unang mongkus loni ho~don't be greedy, you
unang morongorong torusma marjuang~don't complain keep fighting
unang muda juk roham~Don't let your heart hurt young
unang mundur tagan tongtang~don't retreat before fighting
unang nagaor loni ho~don't be a riot
unang ni mansai leleng~don't make it too long
unang pagodanghu porso aba~Don't lie too much ah
unang paila hamu seang~don't embarrass you darling
unang paila jolma asing~don't embarrass others
unang pala alit ho~don't be offended
unang pala di antoi~Don't mix nutmeg
unang pala ho antoi~don't mix it up
unang palobihu godang jujur~don't think too much
unang palojahu radot hagompison~Don't be too tired, take care of your health
unang palojahu radot hasehatonmu~Don't be too tired, take care of your health
unang paotootohon dongan panipu~don't cheat fellow cheaters
unang par gabus doho~don't be a liar
unang parago soso guru~Don't ignore the teacher's advice
unang parengkelhon pedan sadasa~Don't laugh at your own friends
unang pasingot au be~don't remind me again
unang pasombu au lehe~don't let me be mistaken
unang pasombu jolma manungkun~don't let people ask questions
unang patimbohu annon mate~Don't go too high or you'll die
unang patimbohu loni olo~Don't go too high, okay?
unang pauneunehon ho tulang~don't give up, uncle
unang pola atap roham~Don't worry about your heart
unang pollung anggo pinasingot~Don't argue if reminded
unang porsea diri marlobian~don't be overconfident
unang ra di otoi~don't be fooled
unang radoti manuk ondeng~Don't just keep chickens
unang rambon ho dongan~Don't run away, friend
unang rarat barita porso~don't spread fake news
unang ressok nibagas kalas~don't make noise in class
unang rimas iboto amangamanghu~don't be angry my brother
unang risi rampak binatang~Don't be rude to animals
unang ro ro mate~don't suddenly die
unang sa onom pardompahan~don't be six foreheads
unang sahat ho muba~don't let it change
unang sahat martingki arina~don't miss the day
unang sahiti rohahi asi~don't hurt my heart darling
unang sala sangka tahe~don't get me wrong, okay?
unang sala tinggil panghataion~Don't misunderstand the conversation
unang salahon au songonon~don't blame me like this
unang saut jolma patoluhon~Don't be a third person
unang saut jolma sobilak~Don't be a patentengan
unang soksok soksok asi~don't be upset, darling
unang sumisi tagan mora~don't leave before you get rich
unang sungkun bagianhu nuaeng~Don't ask me about my condition now
unang sungkunhon dia tulangna~Don't ask where his uncle is
unang tarlabang ditaon tarhirim~Don't be stuck feeling disappointed
unang tarlalap angkup tingki~don't get carried away by time
unang tarlalap dohot sidalian~don't be lulled by excuses
unang tarlalap hadaian portibi~Don't be lulled by the pleasures of the world
unang teal loni ho~don't be arrogant, you
unang timbul asa pinasangap~do not rise above to be respected
unang tinailihon annon tarenset~Don't glance at it or you'll be tempted
unang tinailihon annon tarsintak~Don't glance at it or you'll be interested
unang tinailihon naung marripe~Don't look at him, he's already married
unang tois molo mamora~Don't be arrogant if you are rich
unang tois unang teal~don't be arrogant, don't be haughty
unang torus manghurtik bohi~don't keep touching your face
unang torus maniop bohi~don't keep holding your face
unang ujiuji guit au~don't try to touch me
undang hamu songon on~try this a bit
une dohot sinamago ngoluna~according to his life problems
ungkap orom rap muse~break the fast together again
ungkap ulu songon dia~open your head how
ungkit ondeng pintu sa~just break down the door
unsok au ma ni~damn it's me
unte pege gambiri hasior~orange ginger candlenut kencur
upa di bagas tuhan~reward in God
urupi apul au anggi~please cheer me up little brother
urupi au mangalap panganon~help me get food
urupi au mangalap siinumon~help me get a drink
urupi dietong na mura~please count the cheap ones
urupi dipalese toktok sa~please complete your obligations
urupi dipangke utokutok sa~Please use your brain
urupi dipasahat jalo asi~please convey, thank you
urupi hamu hobas baju~help you pack clothes
urupi paradihon endem ni~please stop your singing
urupi saritai tu au~please tell me
urupi unang das tarhinos~please don't get tired
urupi unang ihut laok~please don't interfere
urupi unang manaritahon hu~please don't disappoint me
urupi unang mangalgup au~please don't harass me
urupi unang sahiti ibana~please don't hurt him
urupima ama mi on~help your father
urupima jolma matua ni~help the old man
usehon aek hadameon kota~spill the water of city peace
usehon asi dohot parhorasan~pour out grace and salvation
utanghu opat longa muse~I owe another four and a half
utanghu tolu ribu muse~I owe another three thousand
utokutok agoan uhum ni~that vile brain
utokutok ho di duguldugul~your brain is on your knees
abak au sabam ondeng naung~Oh, I've just given up
abak butuhahi daina mangalit alit~Oh my stomach feels like it's in knots
abak hansit gonting hu tuhan~oh my god my back hurts
abak jeges musem soara ho~gosh your voice is great too
abak lagak sa bere tulang~Oh my uncle's handsome nephew
abak mangarujak sahali tondihu targora~Ouch, it's so piercing... my soul is being called
abak tabo loni ma lompalompana~Oh my, the food is delicious
abak tabo sahali ma lompalompana~oh what a delicious dish
abak tonggi sahali suping ho~gosh, your smile is so sweet
abak tuhan lamu susa dipature~oh my god it's getting harder to control
abak tuhan urupima naposom on~oh God, help your servant
adaran eme sun i pariama~fields of rice ready to be harvested
adong do abatabat di pamolusan~there is an obstruction to the flow
adong do ho radoti hepeng~do you have any money saved?
adong do kopi rampak sigaretmu~there's coffee and your cigarettes
adong do songon babi ningon~being like a pig I said
adong dongan mi na panglatu~You have a friend who is single
adong dope barang di san~is there still stuff there?
adong dope do baoa songonon?~are there still men like this?
adong dope na gantung pak~there are still people hanging, sir
adong dope na hepeng mi~do you still have any money?
adong dope pidong mi tulang~you still have birds, uncle
adong dope si nada musik~there's still the music
adong dopena anture halak muse~do you still need more people?
adong ma bongka na talup~is a natural thing
adong ma santisanti sagi tuhan~is an offering to God
adong pe roha dohot sipareakan~as for the aims and objectives
ae gege luhut holi hu~I feel like all my bones are breaking
ae giak au hansit ulu~I feel nauseous, dizzy
ae hasianmi tu jolma matua~your love for your parents
ae sa giot pamate diri~he felt like committing suicide
aek i jabu nari litok~the water at home is still cloudy
aek mata hu nunga mahiang~my tears have dried
aek tio di bagas pasu~clear water in the vase
aek tio tio dohot paborgo~clear and refreshing water
aek tuak di pinalolo gula~juice to be made into sugar
agan gurgar hot bagak ai~Even though it's messy, it's still beautiful
agan ingkon padaodao sian jabu~even if you have to be far from home
agan ndang dope hea pajumpang~even though I've never met him
agan sipata ndang ambung diantusi~although sometimes it's not easy to understand
aganan alogo mangullus maralo odong~even though the wind is blowing in the opposite direction
aganan ndada boto manghatahon sa~even though I don't know how to say it
agia jeges pandapot sada jolma~although it's good one person's opinion
aha adong do lobi boho~whatever it is is more fun
aha angkang ndang dope tunduon~Are you not sleepy yet?
aha annon borngin hamu repot~are you busy tonight?
aha antong na sodap ni~what's so delicious?
aha asam ho naung sae~what are your grades done?
aha baritana hipas do ho~How are you? How are you?
aha do ho pandok nangkin~what did you say earlier?
aha do na ho mangan~what do you eat
aha do na ndada tupa~what is impossible
aha do na rinsan luhut~what's all torn?
aha do nasida naeng manghorasi~will they approve?
aha do ra mi ni~what do you want?
aha guna sa dasardasar ni~what's the use of that shell?
aha habar asi hipas do~How are you darling, how are you?
aha habar hepeng au biang~what's up my money dog
aha habar hipas do ho~How are you? How are you?
aha habarmu hipas do ho~how are you? are you healthy?
aha hadoson asi dohot bunga~What is the similarity between love and flowers?
aha halusna mangan borngin ni~what's wrong with that dinner?
aha hasiputon di medan dongan~What are you busy doing in the field, friend?
aha hata batakna haua ngali~What is the Batak language for cold air?
aha hata mi ndada tarbege~what you said, I couldn't hear it
aha ho ambul gabe dirihu~can you be me?
aha ho hupamate ho annon~what are you, I'll turn you off later
aha ho mangaehon masihol on~do you feel this nostalgia?
aha ho naung mardongan saripe~Are you married
aha ho on risi loni~are you being rude?
aha ho parjolo na joujou~did you call first?
aha ingkon parkarejo na pangsiun~does it have to be a retired employee?
aha isi uhum patik parjolo~What is the content of the first law?
aha jolma mandokhon pidong anduhur~What do Batak people call turtle doves?
aha lapatan uhum patik parjolo~what is the meaning of the first law
aha ma holan manisia somal~is he just an ordinary human?
aha ma holan manisia somal~just an ordinary human
aha ma ulaning bagian mu~what is your true fate?
aha mangarajumi au inang baju~what ponder me aunty
aha muse anggo ate mangula~what else if not hoeing
aha muse angkup ni on~what else besides this
aha na di hilalahon pedan~what do you feel friends?
aha na dihatai jolma ni~what the person is talking about
aha na ingkon i rinsan~what should be torn?
aha na lomo sagi jahoba~what is pleasing to Allah
aha na naeng di rimba~what will be worked on?
aha na ndada boi dipasuhar~what cannot be changed
aha na ra di rimba~what do you want to work on?
aha na ra dibapbap torus~what do you want to keep beating?
aha na tinodo tokke on~what is this boss appointing..
aha ni ai ringkot loni~What's that? how come it's funny?
aha ni na ro imbar~what is it that looks different?
aha ni pisang tula malungun~what is the full moon longing banana?
aha ni samansam panganon ambang~what is a kind of snack
aha nimmu ndada antus au~What did you say? I don't understand
aha nuaeng karejo i galung~Are you working in Pematang now?
aha ondeng arti marsi mangamini~What are the benefits of forgiving each other?
aha ou ho puna haporseaon~Do you have any beliefs?
aha parasingan balu rampak borua~what is the difference between a widow and a girl?
aha pe na manjadi tangkas~whatever happens is certain
aha pe pangambati di jolo~no matter what obstacles lie ahead
aha porlu au na manaruhon~do I need to deliver it?
aha ressok loni sian nangkin~What's the noise from earlier?
aha sa na angkang hatahon~what are you saying bro?
aha sintong ho paposhon hu~are you really convincing me?
aha tahim dungkon tammat kuliah~What are your plans after graduating from college?
aha tutu hata hata on~are these words true?
ai natanata sahali inang baju~why is it so tacky, auntie?
ajal na ndada di parbaga~unexpected fate
ajari ma au disude langkahu~teach me in all my steps
ala au naeng muba rumang~that I will change shape
ala di hita digana pinjil~because we were created differently
ala ido buatma olle ido~so take that talent
ala tangiang patinda sasude sada~because prayer changes everything
alai aganan godang silangko ibana~but even though he has many shortcomings
alai anggo boina pa mamintor~but if you can, do it straight away
alai anggo naung ndada talup~but if it's not normal
alai anggo songonon loja ateh~but if it's like this I'm tired too
alai au asi tu dainang~but I love mom
alai au susa marsiajar bahasam~but I'm having a hard time learning your language
alai bernit ndang boi monggop~but the pain can't be hidden
alai bunga rara pe marsuga~but even red roses have thorns
alai dengke ido paluahon diri~but the fish escaped
alai di dalan ibana hapodoman~but on the way he fell asleep
alai engkel dohot suping nasida~but their laughter and smiles
alai giot marubat huta pa~but you want village treatment, right?
alai hami ila manghajongjonghon sa~but we are embarrassed to reveal it
alai hamuna hot ra mandahop~but you still want to embrace
alai hamuna ndang boi mamilit~but you can't get away
alai hea do nasida morongorong~However, has he ever complained?
alai hita ra mangan mangan~even though we want to eat
alai ho boto daldalna ngoluhu~even though you know how bleak my life is
alai hoji jumpa ho marsogot~even though I want to see you tomorrow
alai holong bontar alani panopano~but unfortunately it's white because of tinea versicolor
alai ido nunga mandandan parbogason~even though he was already in a relationship
alai ingkon ma ho mangarti~but you have to understand
alai isi samak soara hubege~but I heard a faint voice
alai maninggalhon derse sopola parhobason~but leaving hope without preparation
alai musem mangalehon nasida hasangapon~but also gives them honor
alai nangkin tampahan na denggan~even though it was a good opportunity
alai naung hutanda sian jo~but I've known it for a long time
alai ndada isi pompar an~even though there are no derivatives there
alai ndang sadape na pajumpang~but no one was found
alai ndangma luhut di hepeng~but it's not all for the money
alai ni ndang dope arga~but that's not the price yet
alai nosan hagogoton ulaon rampak~even though the weight of the job difficulty is the same
alai nuaeng indonesia nunga marsada~but now Indonesia is united
alai pa adong dope tondong~but there is still family
alai ra hudia sipareakan sa~but where do you want to go?
alai rongkap pe ndang adong~but there is no soul mate
alai tarampe bagas bongka manuani~but lies in being grateful
alai tupa hamuna ndada haboraton~but maybe you don't mind
alana boi baen, bahen nautnaut~because it can make you confused
alani amangamang hu halak batak~because my husband is Batak
alani au dang dope dokkon~because I haven't said it yet
alani bontar sa andora mi~because of the whiteness of your chest
alani borngin gok dohot hadameon~because the night is full of calm
alani diondihon dohot buhai ripur~because it is protected and starting to become extinct
alani giot marsipature abahan batak~because they want to preserve Batak culture
alani hamarhaseaon didapot dohot parjuangan~because success is achieved through struggle
alani hamarhaseaon ingkon dohot parjuangan~because success must come with struggle
alani hamarhaseaon pola padalanhon parjuangan~because success requires struggle
alani harangan pe gabe nabung~because the forest became bare
alani ho ate pande sipadot~because you are not a sweeper
alani ho holan manongos poto~because you only sent photos
alani ho na isi dingoluhu~because you are in my life
alani ho nangkin mandungohon au~because you woke me up
alani isi na diula dison~because there is something to be done here
alani isi saihur ulok balga~because there was a big snake
alani jotjot mida pedan marjoget~because I often see my friends dancing
alani muse raterate pedan au~because my friend is confused
alani naung leleng dabu hatiha~because it was long overdue
alani naung tarbereng pala bolang~because it looks very striped
alani pangalusina ndada naeng muba~because the answer will not change
alani pirus on dohar tarbali~because this virus can be transmitted
alani roha au tolap marpogo~because my heart can survive
alani tingki salpu ho posi~because your past is sad
alani tuan nunga maniop hu~because the lord has held me
ale dang puasa nimmu ho~yes it's not scattered you say you
ale ro tu son gusar~Hey, let's get together
ale ro tu son margusar~Hey, let's get together Batak
ale ro tuson gusar ale~Hey, let's get together, hi
ale saut boasa adong ardoan~ha so why is there any business
aleale saehon dos ni roha~friends complete the deal
ali alai mangarujak tu bagas~short but piercing deep
allang ma annon hansit ho~eat or you'll get sick
allang ma ompan ho ni~eat your bait
allangi ma na ginagat ni~eat that shit
alo raksa rampak datu ulok~a battle of knowledge with a snake charmer
alogo angon ido sai demak~the breeze was very comfortable
alogo di mangiup jambulan mi~the wind to blow your hair
alom adong ma pedan au~your enemy is my friend
alus jo au anture hatorangon~answer first I need information
alus ma unang alit bolit~Answer it, don't be complicated
alusan mi ndang marlapatan sahali~your answer is ridiculous
ama dohot anak pala bongak~father and son are very handsome
ama ido sa natuatua hita~Dad is our elder
ama mi hundul di adaran~Your father is sitting in the field
amang au karejo di hauma~My father works in the rice fields
amang girgir alo sahitna da~Dad is enthusiastic about fighting his illness
amang hu hasian didia ho~my dear father where are you?
amang matua adong dope do~old man is he still there?
amangamang adong ma aleale umuli~husband is the best friend
amangamang na denggan dohot pangantusion~good and understanding husband
amangamanghu lao markarejo mulakna leleng~My husband went to work and came home a long time ago
amanghu marmeam tarompet i ulaon~My father played the trumpet at parties
amanghu muse na bagihon hepeng~My father is the one who distributes the money
amanghu musem na gabe inonghu~My father is also my mother
amangoi ditadinghon sa ho olo~Wow, you've left him
amangtahe sang adong hepeng ni~oh, there's money
amban bohim bonsa tudos ni~why is your face gloomy like that?
amban goar hu ndada marmarga~why doesn't my name have a surname?
amban ho manongoshon gombar ho~why did you send your picture
amban ingkon marujung tudos on~why did it have to end like this?
amban ndada jora dohot jora~why not repent and repent?
amban ngingi ingkon di gundar~why teeth should be brushed
amban parompuan ingkon parsikkola timbo~why women should be highly educated
ambatambat parbogason damang dohot anakkonna~obstacles to a father's relationship with his child
ambul ma bonana hu dongkon~That's all I can say
ampehon gota di hadungon hau~put the sap on the end of the wood
ampin ho giot masuk ndada~Bela, do you want to come in or not?
ampuni dosa dohot pangalaosion hami~forgive our sins and transgressions
ampunima dosahu na godang on~forgive my many sins
anaha ndang dope tongos hepengna~My son hasn't sent the money yet
anak baea amangamanghu naung balga~my son is already big
anak baea baea na dihaholongi~beloved son
anak baea baea siboan marga~son carrying the surname
anak bistok tulangna mirdong pangalusina~Smart kid, his uncle is confused about the answer
anak boru hasianmi tongtong manangianghon~your beloved daughter always prays for you
anak borua batak manunsi pinggan~Batak girl washing dishes
anak borua mardandi rampak inana~The girl sulked at her mother
anak dolidoli lagak dohot marutokutok~handsome and wise boy
anak hamoraon hita andorang jolo~our future rich children
anak hu hamoraon di au~My son is rich in me
anak hu hamoraon di hu~my son is wealth for me
anak lobu holong ho hape~apparently your love slave
anak lumamglumamg isi dua jolma~There are two orphans
anak ndada boto di laba~the child doesn't know what the benefits are
anak ni di pale inana~the child was beaten by his mother
anak ni mararga sagi au~that child is precious to me
anak ni pala hobas markarejo~the child was very hard working
anak parlosok dipaolooloi ripas ma~lazy children are followed to death
anak parompuan batak na tarpinjil~the estranged Batak daughter
anak parompuan tarsorang sian begu~a daughter born from a ghost
anak ranto sian adaran timbo~children from the highlands
anak sarupa ina marabit rara~child and mother dressed in red
anakna hombar jabu huhut pedan~the son of a neighbor and friend
anakna ma hamuliaon sagi sa~His children are his glory
anang aha na au hophop~I don't know what I'm fighting for
anang aha na hamuna sundur~I don't know what you're talking about
anang aha na sorop mi~I don't know what happened to you
anang boasa ma jolma ni~I don't know why that person is
anang ma sala masuk tarhira~I don't know, it looks like I entered the wrong way
andalu muningan bahen mamuhul ondeng~Just ask to make sure
andigan do hu pining ho~when will I propose to you?
andigan do hu pining ho~when will I propose to you?
andigan ho tu son bodat~when did you come here monkey
andorang aning sada na tangkas~I'm waiting for something definite
andorang dainang hu mardomu donganna~when my mother met her friend
andorang hanataan ndang sauli aropan~when reality is not as beautiful as expectations
andorang hansur portibi parsintaan hu~My world of love is being destroyed
andorang ho andar di dingoluhu~when you came into my life
andorang ho sae manunsi tangan~when you finish washing your hands
andorang holong patinda portibi on~when love changes this world
andorang hutangianghon asa busbus dipajonok~I'm praying for you to get closer soon
andorang ina hu mardomu donganna~when my mother met her friend
andorang luhut jolma marlomo sinta~when everyone is happy
andorang mamikkiri na manjadi annon~I'm thinking about what happens next
andorang mangendat tali hail sa~when pulling the fishing line
andorang mangiup ballon di ulaon~is blowing up balloons for an event
andorang manundur olap aha on~I'm talking about what this is about
andorang partaonan haleon hasuharanna amang~It's the lean season, sir
andorang pedan martonel mangatasi lehengna~when friends act beyond their character
andorang pedan ndada mambahen pedan~when friends don't treat friends
andorang pipi jala balga sahali~when the face becomes very chubby
andorang portibi hu nabung hansur~when my world fell apart
anggi au lamu hasea sajo~My little brother is just getting more and more successful
anggi bege ma tona angkang~Brother, listen to your message
anggi hu na tuhan holongi~my brother whom God loves,
anggi mangeahi hami di kobun~My sister followed us in the garden
anggi unang mangkar annon hansit~Sister, don't stay up late or you'll get sick
anggia tamba bagak aha tambarna~I'm getting more beautiful, what's the medicine?
anggia tamba jagar aha tambarna~I'm getting better, what's the medicine?
anggiat angkup luhut godang parsaulianna~I hope you all have lots of good fortune
anggiat ari mi buruk tongtong~I hope you always have a bad day
anggiat boi natodos i podoman~I hope you can be strong in bed
anggiat bona ni garar umur~I hope you live long
anggiat dabu hu di siding~I hope I fall by the side
anggiat das marpahompu dohot marnini~I hope you will have grandchildren and great grandchildren
anggiat dibege tuhan tangiang hita~May God hear our prayers
anggiat diloplophon tu bagas surgo~May you be included in heaven
anggiat ditulushon sasude ardoan mi~I hope all your affairs run smoothly
anggiat dohot moruna umur mi~I hope your age decreases
anggiat eat hita tongtong tarpulos~I hope our friendship will continue
anggiat gok hatuaon dohot hasuksesan~May you be full of blessings and success
anggiat habong ho hojot malum~I hope your wings heal quickly
anggiat hatop dipajonok dohot rongkapna~I hope he gets closer to his soul mate soon
anggiat hatop hita marjabu balatuk~I hope we get married soon
anggiat hatop malum inana amang~I hope your mother recovers quickly, sir
anggiat hepeng naeng ro durus~Hopefully the money will come flowing in
anggiat hita boi matua rap~I hope we can grow old together
anggiat hita luhut dohar mangadopi~I hope we can all attend
anggiat hita luhut palias sian~may we all be kept away from
anggiat ho benget dohot tulus~I hope you are steadfast and sincere
anggiat ho dipaian na umuli~I hope you get the best placement
anggiat ho ma rongkap hu~I hope you are my soul mate
anggiat ho ndada mamparmeamhon rohahi~I hope you don't play with my feelings
anggiat hojot mago bangkin sa~I hope the anxiety goes away soon
anggiat hojot siat sasude rohana~I hope all your wishes come true soon
anggiat i pahatop gajian sa~I hope he gets paid quickly
anggiat ilmuna di dapot marsauli~I hope the knowledge you gain is useful
anggiat jahoba asi dalan haruarna~May Allah give you a way out
anggiat jahoba manghamsarhon parbogason hita~May Allah smooth our relationship
anggiat jahoba pasiat luhut tahim~May Allah grant all your intentions
anggiat jahoba patulushon parsaulianna bagas~May Allah grant him good fortune
anggiat jala anak na badia~I hope you become a pious child
anggiat jala goar na marguna~Hopefully it will become a useful brand
anggiat jolma matua hojot malum~I hope parents get well soon
anggiat lam di pasupasu tuhan~May God bless you more
anggiat loja on gabe hatuaon~I hope this tiredness will be a blessing
anggiat lojam hagararan olo asi~I hope your tiredness pays off, darling
anggiat lojam jala tua holong~I hope your tiredness will be a blessing, dear
anggiat lojam jala tua holonghi~I hope your tiredness will be a blessing, my dear
anggiat luhut duma gok hadengganon~May all be prosperous full of goodness
anggiat mangatim bagas tempo sa~I hope you enjoy your holiday
anggiat mara on hatop salpu~I hope this epidemic passes quickly
anggiat marhuarar pasupasu sian tuhan~May you have abundant blessings from God
anggiat marrongkap hita olo asi~I hope we are matched, darling
anggiat menak i abingan jahoba~May you rest in peace in the bosom of Allah
anggiat na au tangianghon gabe~I hope what I pray for will happen
anggiat na di parsinta siat~I hope what you wish will come true
anggiat na matena digagat panangga~I hope the dogs eat him to death
anggiat ni na umuli bahenmu~I hope it's the best for you
anggiat nipi andal doshon nabodari~I hope you have sweet dreams like last night
anggiat on jala batahi bonar~Hopefully this will be a whip of encouragement
anggiat ondeng au boi mangalaosina~I hope I can get through it
anggiat ondeng hatop haruarna annon~Hopefully it will come out soon
anggiat ondeng hatop malum sahitmu~I hope your illness recovers quickly
anggiat palias sian sasude mara~May you be kept away from all danger
anggiat panganon na diparade lomo~I hope the food served is enjoyable
anggiat roha on tongtong dipagogo~May this heart always be strengthened
anggiat sangap olo pandidion parbadia~Good luck with your holy baptism
anggiat sasude ardoan dohar dipalese~Hopefully all matters can be resolved
anggiat sasude tahina tongtong dipasupasu~May all your plans always be blessed
anggiat sonang dohot demak tongtong~May you always be happy and prosperous
anggiat sonang pa ho dapothon~I hope you find happiness
anggiat tarapul dohot ende on~I hope you enjoy this song
anggiat tondi sa di jalo~May his spirit be accepted
anggiat tondim menak i birena~May your soul rest in peace by his side
anggiat tondim menak i lambung~may your soul rest in peace
anggiat tongtong bagas asi tuhan~May you always be in God's grace
anggiat tongtong di bagas linggoman~May you always be protected
anggiat tongtong dohar ale tulang~May you always be lucky, uncle
anggiat tongtong hita tudos on~I hope we will always be like this
anggiat torus gabe aleale hu~I hope you continue to be my friend
anggiat tuhan mangabara dosa dosamu~May God forgive your sins
anggiat tuhan mangalehon hagompison pardagingon~May God give you physical health
anggiat tuhan manghorasi parbogason hita~May God bless our relationship
anggiat tuhan mangumpat hosa mi~May God take your life
anggiat tuhan manungguli mi sahatopna~May God make you aware as soon as possible
anggiat tuhan pasiat luhut tahim~May God grant all your wishes
anggiat tuhan patulushon tangiang hita~May God answer our prayers
anggiat tuhan patulushon tangiang ho~May God grant your prayers
anggo adong pangke ma jo~If you have it, use it first
anggo ajal ni portibion dipabotohon~if the end of the world is announced
anggo apala hansur hita dongan~If that's the case, we'll be destroyed, friends
anggo apala hita tingkir marsogot~then we'll see tomorrow
anggo ardo eol hot ma~when it comes to style, it's great
anggo au sala boi dipareso~If I'm wrong I can be corrected
anggo bahen pangkat na natingkos~if you make a quality status
anggo balang aha jo buktina~If you are loyal, what is the proof?
anggo biar talu unang martaru~If you're afraid of losing, don't bet
anggo boi annon hita marbarita~If possible, we'll let you know later
anggo boi ari rebo dapotna~If possible, I'll see you on Wednesday
anggo boi asa runsur surta~if possible so that the silk glides
anggo boi au tu san~if possible I'll go there
anggo boi bagihon habar hoga~if you can give me good news
anggo boi da borua batak~If possible, Batak woman
anggo boi dapot alusan ni~if you can get that answer
anggo boi dohot rampak ahu~if you can come with me
anggo boi hu urupi son~If I can I can help here
anggo boi marsogot au paulak~If possible I'll return it tomorrow morning
anggo boi meam meam hita~If you can play, play with us
anggo boi na balga lului~If possible, look for a big one
anggo boi na tobal dompet~if possible, a thick wallet
anggo boi nunga sian nantuari~if possible already from yesterday
anggo boi panggonti mi amang~If possible, replace you, sir
anggo boi sali jo saratus~if you can borrow a hundred first
anggo boi tangkas au urupi~If I can, I'll definitely help
anggo boi unang martandang da~If possible, don't date
anggo borhat tu lasiak risik~If you go to Lombok, be careful
anggo daong hita manonggor sajo~otherwise we'll just watch
anggo dipauba tu hata indonesia~if changed to Indonesian
anggo ganasna tingki borngin ari~if he gets angry at night
anggo ho gadis lam ni~if you sell it, that's all
anggo hubereng ho hansur rohahi~When I look at you my heart breaks
anggo ibana maminsang sasintongna ondeng~if he punishes it appropriately
anggo ibana ndang dope mangaehon~if he hasn't felt it yet
anggo ida sisolhot mamintor bonar~When you see your cousin you immediately get excited
anggo ido busbus pinarade ondeng~If so, just prepare it immediately
anggo isi masala uhai au~if there is a problem contact me
anggo isi sala di maaphon~if there is any mistake, forgive me
anggo laos adong do utokmi~if you have a brain
anggo malungun sada ingkon marusaha~If you want something you have to try
anggo manangani sada di kantor~if you take care of something at the office
anggo marhepeng au isi sintamu~If you have money, I have your love
anggo mohopan olo martapian ma~If it's hot, take a shower
anggo mulak boan parbue salak~When you come home, bring salak fruit
anggo na on boi didundung~if this can be achieved
anggo naung legan dia taralo~If you have a style, what's the opposite?
anggo naung sonang marbarita olo~If you're relaxed, let me know
anggo ndada isi motor alapi~if there is no pick-up car
anggo ndang hu alapi ma~If not, I'll pick you up
anggo ni silang adongma haleaon~if it is a cross it is humiliation
anggo paburbanghon muse jolma on~if this guy acts again
anggo ra dipasuhar ua amang~If you want to change it, please do so sir
anggo ra ihut manampung hita~If you want to join us, jump
anggo ra modom inum tambarmu~If you want to sleep, take your medicine
anggo ra torsa pisik pangke~If you want to tell a secret, use
anggo rampak au pote ondeng~If it's the same as me, just map it
anggo rimas annon ho bura~If you're angry, you'll get angry
anggo ro au leleng dasna~If I come, I'll take a long time to arrive
anggo rongkap jumpangna hita ido~if we meet our soul mate
anggo sega i pature do~If it's damaged, fix it
anggo senen au tangkas boi~If it's Monday I definitely can
anggo sibolis susa na matena~it's hard for the devil to die
anggo siholmu pandok unang ila~If you miss me, don't be shy
anggo songoni loas sajo ma~If it's like that, so be it
anggo sundat ndada tupa ma~if it fails it's impossible
anggo tilhang muse au gotil~If I'm naughty again I'll be a bitch
angguliman di pangoli pangoli bagas~greetings for the bride and groom
angguliman di posoposo anak sadasa~greetings for your own baby
angguliman habot ni roha batak~Batak condolences
angguliman ramot nangkok tohonan bagas~congratulations on promotion to office
anggulimanna holan tonggi di mula~his words were only sweet at the beginning
angka hata hamuna ndada marguna~your words are useless
angka hata mi pala naboritan~your words are very hurtful
angka hitir annon ibana sa~He'll be scared later
angka jabu ias dohot anture~the houses are clean and tidy
angkang aha habar ingot daong~brother how are you? don't you remember?
angkang asalna sian kota aha~what city are you from?
angkang boasa ndada mandulo au~Brother, why don't you visit me?
angkang lagak hian dohot tunggun~Brother is very handsome and authoritative
angkang naung hobas barang ale~I've packed my things, bro
angkang naung merung ndang dope~Is your sister thin yet?
angkang ndada mangorom muse tondan~My brother is not fasting anymore and is unable to do so
angkanghu asi au tarhiap jahana~my dear brother. I was surprised to read it
angkanghu sada on margait torus~My brother keeps joking
angkula on naung tinodo tuhan~This body has been appointed by God
angkup alani ni di parhasomal~therefore get used to it
angkup bistok dohot puna ulan~and smart and sensible
angkup dalan longo sopola pipot~and a quiet, spotless road
angkup hagogoon sihabunian na mamatehon~by a deadly hidden force
angkup jolma na tu hurangan~by needy people
angkup ndada marhahurangon boha pe~and don't lack anything
angkup ndang marhahurangon boha pe~and don't lack anything
angkup sihar rumondang bulan tula~and the light of the full moon
angur pa goar dolidoli batak~The name of a Batak youth smells good
aning diburai hata hata dorsun~waiting to be cursed with dirty words
aning sinta sorop i roha~waiting for love to land in your heart
aning ulaon na mansaima mandosdos~waiting for a very boring job
anju soara hu muse abur~sorry my voice is hoarse
annon amanghu manonggor tangiang asobe~Later my father will watch the prayer beads
annon anggo naung jobung sumolsol~If you get caught, you'll regret it later
annon anggo pajumpang au torsahon~When I meet you, I'll tell you
annon anggo ra di tanoman~Later, if you want to go to the cemetery
annon au garar anggo isi~I'll deposit it later if I have it
annon au manumbang musem suang~I'll donate too later
annon au pasahat tu ibana~I'll tell him later
annon au taru tu jabu~I'll take you home later
annon boi meam bal ndada~Can you play football later or not?
annon borngin hita lumba muse~Tonight we will compete again
annon borngin ho hu baritai~I'll let you know tonight
annon borngin tuhor indahan saok~Tonight I'll buy fried rice
annon dang dope rade ho~you won't be ready yet
annon haliang medan muse hita~Later we will go around the field again
annon ho dihara oli lua~Later you will be asked to elope
annon ho na hona tangkang~Then you'll be the one who gets robbed
annon hu lulu gomal dainang~I'll look for mom's clothespin later
annon hu umma ho olo~I'll kiss you later
annon lao di boan anakmi~Later, go with your child
annon ma au pangido sa~I'll ask for it later
annon ma ditaruhon birubiru ni~Then the sheep will be delivered
annon ma hita pajumpang olo~we'll meet later..
annon ma sadihari sadihari muse~Later, sometime later
annon mandaon dohot bahasa jambi~Later you will get used to the Jambi language
annon muse hita marnonang muse~We'll chat again later
annon naeng hu tongoshon tuho~I'll send it to you later
annon naung das jabu baritai~I'll let you know when I get home
annon paima uluan au mulak~I'll wait for my commander to come home
annon pe hona sapata ibana~Later, he will be hit by karma
annon tangkas au na monang~Then I'll definitely win
annon tartuhor mi musem ni~Then you'll buy that too
ansiat anak parhauma na pogos~as a poor farmer's son
ansiat anak parompuan ingkon ma~as a daughter it must be
ansiat basabasa na hian timbul~as a very noble gift,
ansiat ni bongka na sasintongna~as the real thing
ansiat ni ihotihot manang handehande~as a tie or scarf
ansiat rahutan parsikkola na timbo~as a student association
ansiat santisanti hu na ngolu~as my living offering.
ansiat saut hami mussat inganan~so we moved places
ansiat sipele na tung tung~as a sincere devotee,
antong do saut sundat oromna~indeed, the fast is broken
antongan aha pangke hata risi~what do you mean by using harsh words?
antuk nabegu boto ulu balang~hit the brave know the loyal head
anture haehe di manghaholongi mi~need consideration to love you
antus pa na au sundur~understand what I'm talking about
antusi anggo au mangorai ho~understand if I forbid you
aos loni hami lompit tangan~repeatedly we folded our hands
apala bontor naeng holong holongmu~so sincere in your love
apala nuaeng olo rujiruji loni~So now, let's calculate
apala songoni ho suman lombu~you're so much like a cow
api pe nala sian dapur~the fire was burning from the kitchen
apoi apoi ma hamletmu ni~reprimand your girlfriend
ardo ma diri mi sadasa~take care of yourself
ardoi ondeng sahit ho ni~just take care of your illness
ardona au holong rampak ho~because I love you
ardona nari papunguhon hepeng jo~because I'm still collecting money first
ardona nari papunguhon hepengna au~because I'm still collecting the money
arga diri ndada boi digadis~Self-esteem cannot be sold
argana lima pulu dua ribu~the price is fifty-two thousand
ari ndada isi habar barita~there is no news today
ari on ai munik ibana~I'm thinking about him today
ari on ari pala logo~today the weather is very sunny
ari on au naeng manguhal~today, I will discuss
ari on au naeng markassa~today I will look in the mirror
ari on lojana ruar somal~Today I'm incredibly tired
ari on mohopna ruar somal~today is unusually hot
ari on ture sibuk huting~Today cat meat is available
ari salasa manogot tu pasir~Tuesday morning to the beach
arian songonon damporna inum kopi~It's nice to drink coffee this afternoon
arop tongtong bagas asi tuhan~please always be in God's grace
aropan dohot songkongan na balga~great hope and support
arti pa tano omo alaman~Benefits of the land from the garden
asa adong ma na saingan~so that there is something to be said for it
asa adong na di gandeng..~so that there is a hand in hand
asa alogo na pasahat siholhu~Let the wind convey my longing
asa ambung manangkup manuk manukna~so that it is easy to catch the chickens
asa au giot mangontang ho~then I want to invite you
asa au hutur hamuna luhut~let me rock you all
asa boi di suba jo~so you can try it first
asa boi dohar naniomo sadasa~so you can earn your own income
asa boi hita busbus marsinta~so we can make love soon
asa boi manandai tarombo pomparan~in order to mark the genealogy of descendants
asa boi marnida sondang dihagolapan~so that you can see the light in the darkness
asa boi muse manuhor anggur~so I can buy wine again
asa gamir asal raphon ho~let it be soft as long as it is with you
asa hamsar hatutubu anakmi marsogot~so that your child's birth goes smoothly tomorrow
asa hatop saut jolma mora~so that you can quickly become rich
asa hita hatai na sihabunian~so that we can talk about what is hidden
asa hita tarpasiding sian hamamate~so that we avoid death
asa hu tampul ulu mi~Let me cut off your head
asa huajari ibana pajagarhon natuatua~Let me teach him to respect his elders
asa ibana marhatahata dohot rimas~so he grumbled and got angry
asa isi hepeng di martaru~so that there is money to gamble
asa isi torus manangianghon dainang~Let me continue to pray for Mama
asa lam ditanda abahan batak~so that Batak culture becomes better known
asa lobi denggan taba ondeng~then it's better to just cut it down
asa manisia longang naeng ibana~so that people will be amazed by him
asa marende pedan hita ni~let our friend sing
asa marhuarar las ni roha~so that happiness abounds
asa ndada ditangko bangso asing~so that it is not stolen by other nations
asa ndada jotjot dampol pidong~so you don't massage the bird often
asa ndada mansalai ngolu manisia~so as not to endanger human life
asa pa sapata mangalap eur~Let karma take over
asa pagodang marsabam martimbanghon morongorong~So be more patient than complaining
asa patoguhon tali pardonganon hita~to strengthen our ties of brotherhood
asa pinahan ndada tarasup ripur~so that animals are not threatened with extinction
asa saotik las daging on~to warm this body a little
asa sondang sa ndada impas~so that the light does not disappear
asa tigor mengadap tu on~so it's fair to face here
asa urupi ma na silangko~so help those who are in need
asal ma unang holan angan~Just don't just dream
asal pa unang mapisar bola~Just don't be divided
asal unang jolma na manggotil~as long as it's not someone who harvests
asal unang lea pogos do~just don't be poor
asal unang lupa bola ondeng~just don't forget to split it
asi asi ina andorang dalan~mother's love all the way
asi naung godang dohar dengkena~Unfortunately, I got a lot of fish
asi roha ibana saut pangulu~sorry for being an intermediary
asi roha ndada boi urupi~poor thing, can't help
asi roha pedan hita ni~I feel sorry for our friend
asi sintana ho rap au~darling, you love me
asing jolma asing antong pangalahona~other people's behavior is different
asing loni bistok otik ho~Next time you'll be a little smarter
asing lubuk asing dengke sa~another fish, another fish
ate ama hami siboan dame~no father, we are peacemakers
ate arta na hu tami~not the treasure I asked for
ate do inangmi jolma batak~isn't your mother Batak?
ate hagogoon na ingkon sihabiaran~not a force to be afraid of
ate ho na au hatai~It's not you I'm talking about
ate karejo baliksa marende torus~instead of working, I just keep singing
ate manisia alai pinahan ho~not humans but your animals
ate marmiak ni alai hodok~It's not oily, it's sweat
ate pambege na denggan goarna~not a good listener
ate porso au alai margapgap~I'm not lying but I'm lying
ate sa au tondi mi~It's not like I like you
ate sonang na palolohon hita~it's not happiness that makes us
ate tangi na isi nengel~It's not sensitive that there is deafness
atik boasa nasida di son~I don't know why they are here
atimi ngolu on tagan modom~enjoy this life before sleeping
atur ma tuhan songon dia~God arranges it how
au adong ma burabura deua~I am the curse of god
au adong ma jolma parmonang~I am a winner
au adong ma sahalak pardengke~I am a fisherman
au adong ma sahalak parsikkola~I am a student
au adong ma sang boban~I am the burden
au ae ho jolma ansi~I think you are a hypocrite
au aga gabe sahalak parsikkola~I am proud to be a student
au ambul goki ra mi~I can fulfill your wishes
au anak tota dohot tota~I am an orderly and orderly child
au anak ugamo malim kristen~I am the son of a Christian priest
au andorang dibarukbak angkup holong~I'm being destroyed by love
au andorang hundul di karosi~I was sitting in a chair
au andorang mangarorot anak bodat~I'm babysitting a monkey
au anggo naung simor mara~I feel dangerous when I get emotional
au anture hadameon ari on~I need peace today
au anture hatigoran ate hagabuson~I need honesty, not lies
au anture ho di sabolahu~I need you beside me
au ari on saotik mirdong~I'm a little stressed today
au arop ho ndada apala~I hope you don't do that
au asi anak oto on~I love this stupid kid
au asi di mi jempek~I love you short
au asi ho saburju on~I love you this well
au ate bagudung dongan dongan~I'm not a rat, friends.
au ate inganan parbonjoran bolis~I'm not the devil's haven
au bagihon tuho nangkin manogot~I gave it to you this morning
au bangkol rampak pardijabu angkang~I hate my brother's wife
au baragas tarlambat tu sikkola~I'm late for school
au biar di rimas pardijabu~I'm afraid my wife will anger me
au boi do manghaholongi ho~I usually love you
au boi tongos inganan mangan~I can give you a place to eat
au boruboru somal na maol~I'm an ordinary woman of value
au boto babami pangalualu birubiru~I know your mouth is a snitch
au boto holan pompar sian~I know it's just a derivative of
au buat kue lampis honas~I made pineapple layer cake
au buhai siar sibolis losok~I started to be possessed by a pessimistic demon
au dabu holong dohot rupami~I fell in love with your form
au dang dungo alani loja~I don't wake up because I'm tired
au di ajarhon dongan hu~I was taught by my friend
au di ehet marbohi dua~I was teased as being two-faced
au di lante bilut ginjang~I'm in the upstairs room
au di lante ginjang bilut~I'm upstairs. room.
au di tullang sian tambon~I was stabbed in the buttocks
au dipaboa angkup angkang ho~I was told by your sister
au dohar tongosan sian medan~I got a shipment from Medan
au dohot kalekalehu laos biar~My friends and I were afraid
au dohot pardijabu ra parulan~My wife and I want to take action
au gale ida suping mi~I'm weak seeing your smile
au getei musem suang babana~I also tore his mouth
au giot bebe tarus mi~I want to squeeze your breasts
au giot di pasosokhon on~I want to match this.
au giot holong na parbadia~I want pure love
au giot ibana gabe punahu~I want him to be mine
au giot lao dohot sipujion~I want to go with imagery
au giot lao manghaliangi pasir~I want to go around the sand
au giot mangan marata simarata~I want to eat vegetables
au giot manggonti goar hu~I want to change my name
au giot manghatai saotik mangonai~I want to talk a little bit about
au giot maradong dilambung mi~I want to be near you
au giot mardua ate martolu~I want two, not three
au giot mulak mangkaolho dainang~I want to go home to hug you mom
au giot sonanghon jolma matua~I want to make my parents happy
au giot tuhan na martahi~I want God to plan
au gok dosa ampuni dosahu~I am full of sins, forgive my sins
au hatahon hatahata handang lung~I say the words of the natural fence
au hea dabu di binanga~I once fell in a river
au hea di harat ranggiting~I was once bitten by a wasp
au heheamon dohot mangalompit salimut~I yawned and folded the blanket
au heu dohot giot modom~I'm tired and want to sleep
au heu dohot naeng modom~I'm tired and going to sleep
au heu dohot ra modom~I'm tired and want to sleep
au hira ho naung pistar~I think you are already skilled
au hira jogi hape retes~I thought it was strong but apparently fragile
au hira naung mate ho~I thought you were dead
au ho pandok langkitang rasun~I said poison snail
au hoji saut pamborontak annon~I want to be a rebel later
au holan giot boto do~I just want to know
au holan habalian ateate mi~I'm just expressing my feelings
au holan habalian ateate mi~I'm just an outlet for your feelings
au holan ma baoa pogos~I'm just a poor guy
au holan ma sahalak pangalualu~I'm just a complainer
au holan pasombu eat hu~I'm just venting my jealousy
au holan ra di mangarti~I just want to be understood
au holan ranting na tarporot~I'm just a twig that got caught
au holong ho ate artami~I love you, not your wealth
au holong panabur kota edang~I love the tourist city sower
au hot pillit nomor dua~I still choose number two
au hurang porsea rampak hamuna~I don't believe you guys
au ingkon hahomion jo tu~I have to study first
au ingkon manganju mangadopi lehengna~I have to be patient with his behavior
au ingkon marroha mansut hian~I have to think first
au isi i lampis pinomparmu~I am in your lineage
au jabuna di kota jambi~I live in the city of Jambi
au jama angka hata sa~I take his word for it
au jobung angkup holong mi~I'm trapped by your love.
au jolma na ndang marnampuna~I am a person who has nothing
au kristen annon halung silang~I'm Christian, later on a cross necklace
au lagak dohot au marpananginangian~I'm handsome and I listen
au lao ho naeng sumolsol~I'm leaving you will regret it
au las roha mambege baritam~I'm glad to hear your news
au las roha mangguruhon bahasa~I enjoy learning languages
au lengse musem ma ho~I'll kill you too
au loja hian losok sikkola~I'm really tired and lazy about school
au lomo mangan manuk tata~I like to eat raw chicken
au lomo marlange dohot maredangedang~I like swimming and traveling
au lomo sa na mohop~I like it hot
au lomo sahali mangan pote~I really like eating petai
au lomo sipanganonna alani siak~I like the food because it is spicy
au lomo tahuluk dohot handehande~I like the hat with the scarf
au losok tuat sian podoman~I'm too lazy to get out of bed
au ma dolidoli na parjolo~I am the first man
au ma na tama dididi~I am the one who is worthy to be baptized
au mamanghulingi au na sala~I greeted me wrong
au mampuna panesa uarna rara~I have a red eraser
au manangianghon na umuli bahenmu~I wish you the best
au mandalani parbogason raphon ho~I'm in a relationship with you
au mandohoti hata roha au~I follow my heart
au mandokhon au ndada mangarti~I said I don't understand
au mandompakhon muse lambung hu~I looked around me again
au manerbeng tailihon haadongon lambung~I glanced at the surroundings
au mangahap losok lao mulak~I feel lazy to go home
au mangahap pamatanghon lam jogi~I feel my body is getting stronger
au mangalehon hepeng di ibana~I handed him the money
au mangangguk mambege ende on~I cried hearing this song
au mangarambas jo di hauma~I cut it first in the field
au mangasi mi anggi hu~I love you my sister
au manggonti goar hu sian~I changed my name from
au manghaholongimu doge borua hampung~I love you, village girl
au manghaholongimu dohot bontor roha~I love you sincerely
au manghaholongimu mula panailian parjolo~I love you from first sight
au manghaholongimu tudos mataniari tarlonop~I love you like the sunset
au manghaholongina di panailian parjolo~I loved him at first sight
au manghapian dalanmu bagas manghaholongihu~I like the way you love me
au manisia jungkat dohot mardosa~I am an evil and sinful human being
au manjae dohot di seaseahon~I am independent and wasted
au manjarga parasingan saut sada~I want the differences to become one
au manuani alani ho manotaphon~I am grateful because you confirmed me
au manumbang musem di on~I donated too for this
au marasal sian pomparan sabangso~I come from a lineage of the same nation
au marhaporseaon naeng bongka ni~I believe in that
au maringkati i gadu hauma~I ran around in the rice fields
au marjuang mangalo hagaleon hu~I fight against my weaknesses
au marpangande mandapothon ho tuhan~I surrender to you God
au marsiajar sadasa ma hasian~I'm learning on my own, darling
au martugan tu meja asing~I turned to another table
au maruhom di jabu ondeng~I just stay at home
au marusaha tongtong isi bahenmu~I try to always be there for you.
au masihol bibir tobal mi~I miss your thick lips
au masihol umma gedekgedek ho~I miss kissing your armpits
au menak raphon ho haholongan~I'm comfortable with you lover
au mirdong dang puna hepeng~I'm dizzy not having money
au modom jo da hasian~I'll sleep first, darling
au modom jo da uli~I'll sleep first, beautiful
au mudu das ho malum~I will take care of you until you recover
au mulak annon pungkul lima~I'll be home at five o'clock
au muningan bahen mamuhul ondeng~I asked just to make sure
au muse mangulahon turgas sikkola~I'm doing school work
au muse mangulahon ulaon sikkola~I'm doing school work
au musem tarhira mulak haduan~I also think I'm going home the day after tomorrow
au mutu gabe jolma patoluhon~I'm willing to be the third person
au mutu paima au hasea~I'm willing to wait until I succeed
au na di pasaut langkupon~I was the one being cheated on
au na nampuna anggi parompuan~I have a younger sister
au na ngorngor marpanganju ondeng~I just slowly gave in
au naeng borhat karejo martagi~I'm going to go to work to collect.
au naeng boto alusan targora~I would know the answer;
au naeng dimuruki angkup inonghu~I will be scolded by my mother
au naeng lao tu an~I will go there
au naeng mamalos haburjuon pambahenanmu~I will repay your services
au naeng mandoltuk ulu mi~I will hit your head
au naeng mangendehon sabiji ende~I will sing a song
au naeng manghaholongimu sagok sa~I will love you completely
au naeng manjaha barita olap~I will read the article about
au naeng martapian hian olo~I'm going to take a shower first
au naeng mulak bagas sajom~I'll be back in an hour
au naeng ro tu pestami~I will come to your party
au naeng tongtong manginggalhon mi~I will always pamper you
au naeng tongtong marningot mi~I will always remember you
au naeng tu ruar nagari~I want to go abroad
au nangkin manongos surat partadingan~I just sent the file
au nari boi marbahasa indonesia~I can still speak Indonesian
au nari godang sala hata~I still say a lot wrong
au naung andehon turgas au~I have submitted my assignment
au naung demak dohot hasandirionhu~I'm comfortable with my solitude
au naung di undungundung balga~I'm already in the big hut
au naung jago bahasa mi~I'm already good at your language
au naung marusaha saburju tupa~I've tried my best
au naung targasip padan angkang~I'm stuck on my promise, brother
au ndada anto dohot hatahatam~I don't care what you say
au ndada ardo ardo ho~I don't care about you
au ndada bias mamikkiri ho~I don't get tired of thinking about you
au ndada boi ihut mangadopi~I can't attend
au ndada boi mamalos panghilalaanmu~I can't return your feelings
au ndada boi mamalu sulim~I can't play the flute
au ndada boto aha sidalianna~I don't know what the reason is
au ndada boto bahasa huta~I don't know Banjar language
au ndada boto ni ditahi~I didn't know it was planned
au ndada denggan di hagompison~I'm not good for health
au ndada dohar parumbukhon gombar~I can't adjust the image.
au ndada hea mambahen hagaoron~I never make a fuss
au ndada mangan na dauk~I don't eat soft ones
au ndada mangarahon hamu marbada~I'm not inviting you to fight
au ndada mangarihon tutur di~I don't have any relatives in
au ndada mangarti dohot pangalahohi~I don't understand my nature
au ndada mangarti hata nimmu~I don't understand your words
au ndada mangarti panghataion sa~I don't understand his conversation
au ndada manungkun tu ho~I didn't ask you
au ndada margapgap au tuhu~I'm not lying, I'm serious
au ndada nampuna aha aha~I don't have anything
au ndada pangido gula asi~I didn't ask for sugar, darling...
au ndada ra ardoi muse~I don't want to deal with it anymore
au ndada sundol dohot jolma~I don't hold grudges with people
au ndang buruk na torbang~I'm not as bad as it sounds
au ndang dope boi mangiup~I can't blow yet
au nunga manontuhon ho gabe~I have appointed you to be
au olat tu tuhan jesus~I lead to the Lord Jesus
au on paburbanghon mangarti sasintongna~I pretend to really understand
au pa halakna denggan ulan~I'm a kind person
au pa jolma batak lipe~I'm a fake hobo
au paboa ho na satutuna~I'll tell you the truth
au paima di kode tuak~I'm waiting at the palm wine shop
au paima di simpang opat~I waited at the intersection
au pala bias hagabuson mi~I really hate your lies
au pala las roha marminggu~I really enjoy worship
au pala las roha marsikkola~I really enjoy going to school
au pala mambias on luhut~I really hate all of this
au pala manghasiholi haadongon ho~I really miss your presence
au pala manghasiholi ho amanghu~I really miss you my father
au pala manghasiholi ho baoahu~I really miss you my man
au pala manghasiholi marbinereng ho~I really miss your attention
au pala marutang ulan tuho~I owe you a lot
au pala sonang diarihon ho~I'm very happy to have you
au pala tongon dohot ho~I really suit you
au pandok soaram ate goarmu~I said your voice not your name
au pangido maapma dohot ho~I apologize to you
au pangido maapma sarupa mi~I apologize to you
au pangido urupi gogona dipaboa~I ask that you please tell me the results
au parade sopi dohot panganon~I prepared wine and food
au pardosa na giot muba~I am a sinner who wants to repent
au paspas annon ho ra~I'll draw it later if you want
au paspas marsogot na buat~I'll draw it tomorrow
au pe di aceh saonari~I'm in Aceh now
au pe saotik marpasir pasir~I'm a little gritty too
au pe sihol sahali tuho~I really miss you too
au pe siholan do martabak~I also miss martabak
au pe susa di huta~I'm having a hard time in the village too,
au pikkir ho jolma kalimantan~I thought you were Kalimantan
au pikkir panataon on jeges~I think this statement is good
au porsea tuhan na mangudurhon~I believe God is leading
au posi au pala biar~I'm pathetic, I'm so scared
au pukul saut lombu ho~I beat your ox
au puna hamlet lagak hian~I have a very handsome boyfriend
au puna ngingi na anture~I have straight teeth
au punam manang ho punahu~I am yours or you are mine
au ra eol mulak on~I want to move home
au ra gabe pardijabu tuan~I am willing to be your wife
au ra hita tudos angkiningan~I want us to be like before
au ra hobas hobas jo~I want to pack up first
au ra ida bohi ulimu~I want to see your beautiful face
au ra lao manaruhon ama~I want to go send dad
au ra mangan gadong insir~I want to eat sweet potatoes
au ra mangana hinan tulang~I want to supervise uncle first
au ra mangaririt anak ama~I want to propose to your son
au ra manggotil hurum ho~I want to pinch your cheeks
au ra markato rampak ho~I want to talk to you
au ra mengendos dohot ho~I want to have sex with you
au ra modom dongani tongkin~I want to sleep for a moment, friend
au ra pabali pidong hinan~I want to chase away the birds first
au ra paias manuk olo~I want to clean the chicken, okay?
au ra porsea alai lomos~I want to believe but doubt
au ra sajabu rampak ho~I want to be at home with you
au radot ho saumur ngoluhu~I'll take care of you all my life
au rampak molo tu onan~I'll be with you when I go to the market
au rarat annon poto ho~I'll share your photo later
au ro tingkosi padan au~I came to fulfill my promise
au roa obukhu diseat guruhu~I was ugly, my hair was cut by my teacher
au sabam olap on luhut~I surrender about all this
au sadasa naung songonon matua~I'm already that old myself
au sai marutang ulan tuho~I owe you a lot
au sala sada parsikkola di~I am one of the students at
au sala sada sisean di~I am one of the students at
au sala torus di matami~I'm always wrong in your eyes
au sasintongna tulen medan ma~I'm actually from Medan
au saut lomos rampak ibana~I have doubts about him
au saut ra mamisat andoram~I want to squeeze your chest.
au sigomgom dison hamu ise~I am the ruler here, who are you?
au sihol siingoton raphon ho~I miss the memories with you
au somal mamangke bahasa sintuhu~I usually use formal language
au sonang andorang ho mulak~I've been happy since you came back
au sonang arihon ho sahibulna~I'm happy to have you completely
au sonang marbogas dohot ho~I am happy to be connected with you
au sorang di medan ualu~I was born in Medan Eight
au sun manangihon saritamu asi~I'm ready to listen to your story, love
au sungguli ho sian hadadao~I wake you up from a distance
au tading di dalan balanga~I live on Jalan Belanga
au tanggal ngingi ho sasudena~I'll knock out all your teeth
au tangkas tingkosi bahen ho~I'll definitely do it for you
au tangkas tingkosi padan ni~I will definitely keep that promise
au tarhait marsiajar bahasa batak~I'm interested in learning Batak language
au tarjollung bagas ruang birong~I fell into a black hole
au tarompas dohot ndang boi~I fell and couldn't
au tartembak bagas partompuran ni~I was shot in that battle
au tartompa ate di dibalbali~I was not created to be beaten
au tembak ulu ho annon~I'll shoot you in the head later
au tipul pa rungkung ho~I'll break your neck
au tona karsis motor panumpang~I ordered a bus ticket
au tongtong managam ho asi~I'm always waiting for you darling
au tongtong sumolsol dohot hangoluon~I always regret life
au tutung rapan jo olo~I'll burn the trash first
aupe puna sinta sinta gabe~I also have a dream to become
aut sugarina au puna kobun~I wish I had a garden
baba hita ndada mamorluhon pinggol~Our mouths don't need ears
baba ho bou saridondon babi~Your mouth smells like pig shit
baba mi giot hu tagil~I want to cut your mouth
baba mi tudos sambal andaliman~Your mouth is like andaliman chili sauce
baba ni laos marbisa dongan~That mouth is poisonous, my friend
babami ndada sabalga hagarangon mi~Your mouth is not as big as your courage
babami ni sogir buea tur~Your mouth is dangerous, land crocodile
babi dilompa aha damporna olo~How delicious is cooked pork?
babiat dihabiari alani ibana so~the tiger is feared because he is silent
baen hita borontak di tuhan~make us rebel against God
bagak bagak alai naung nona~beautiful beautiful but already senile
bagak bagak tangi ampun ama~beautiful, beautiful, sensitive, forgive me, sir
bagak boru sinaga sada on~This Sinaga is beautiful
bagak do jamu muna bah~How beautiful is your herbal medicine?
bagak halina ho ari on~you are beautiful today
bagak hian angkang boruku on~My older sister is so beautiful
bagak hian manusia on da~This human is really beautiful, isn't it?
bagak loni katua bunsit boltokna~Cool, chief, big belly
bagak sahali anak boru siampudan~very beautiful youngest daughter
bagak sahali bangkomu dohot bohim~your character and your face are very beautiful
bagak sahali bere tulang on~This uncle's niece is so beautiful
bagak sahali bohi mi asi~your face is very beautiful, darling
bagak sahali bohim dohot bohimi~your face and appearance are very beautiful
bagakna sadihari au boi mebat~beautiful, when can I visit
bagas etongan sanghidop duansa mangagohon~In a matter of moments both disappeared
bagas etongan sanghidop duansa manimuk~In a matter of moments both of them disappeared
bagas hamajuon bangso dohot nagara~in the progress of the nation and state
bagas mangulahon poda tuhan jesus~in carrying out the mandate of the Lord Jesus
bagas modommu luhut naeng mago~in your sleep everything will disappear
bagas nipi au manganju badanmu~in a dream I caress your body
bagas nipi au manghurtik badanmu~in a dream I touched your body
bagas rohahi ndada boi mangalupahonsa~In my heart I can't forget it
bagasna laut boi di dodo~the depth of the sea can be measured,
bagasna lombang nagaor roha tarlanang~deep in the abyss of unrest is flooded
bagi jo hepeng mu saotik~Share your little money first
bagihon au umma peleng mi~give me your spoiled kiss
bagihon parpunguan dohot gogohon pardonganon~share togetherness and create brotherhood
bagudung adong ma pangallang sasude~Rats are omnivores
bagudung manegai masin buri hu~Rats damaged my washing machine
bahasa inggoris sian pangkema toba~English from use toba
bahasa kedanhu pangido urupi dipabanje~My friend's Batak language is asking for help to tidy up
bahasa manggonii parao jabu balatuk~sail the household ark
bahasa pote sina aha olo~What is the Batak Petai Chinese language?
bahasa sa di bali pardijabu~Bini expelled her Batak language
bahasa simangot uluni tot ho~tongue your knees
bahen ho na borua mokmok~for you fat girls
bahen jo denggan dia denggani~make it good first, which is good
bahen ma manghajongjonghon na sintong~make a true confession
bahen ma nipim gabe hanataan~make your dreams come true
bahen ma sambil i porda~make the net a handle
bahen ma tudos sabiji tortor~make it like a dance
bahenan saripehu tarasi tung sonang~made by my beloved wife. really happy
baju hunik na timbil bagak~the most beautiful yellow dress
bajur asi adongma bajur pardamean~the work of love is the work of peace
bal ni dabu tubagas bondar~The ball fell into the gutter
balang dohot pasihar tarsongon bintang~loyal and shining like a star
balga sahali dengkena didia dapotsa~The fish is so big, where can you get it?
balga sahali hae ina ni~Mom's thighs are so big
balga tutu matana berehu on~My nephew's eyes are really big
bali hambing olo tu tonga~drive the goat into the middle
balos sundol sahalak anak ulubalang~revenge of a child hero
bangkomu na bahen au muba~Your character made me change
bangkomu ni mansam babi mohopan~Your character is like a pig in heat
bangso batak parjolo loni mangingani~The Batak tribe first inhabited it
bangso na mambongoti i indonesia~tribes that live in Indonesia
banjar bara ni pala ganjang~The row of cages was very long
bapbap holi unang asi malbangalbang~beat the bones, don't give them slack
bapbap torus unang das lambas~Keep hitting it and don't let it loose
bapbap torus unang mundur muse~keep hitting and don't back down
barani do totar habong mi~Be brave, spread your wings
barani dohot tangkup bagas parporangon~brave and agile in war
barani hape ho rampak hu~You're brave like me
barita hu denggan denggan ondeng~My news is fine
barita na uli na paruarhon~the liberating gospel
baritana orbuk das kota medan~Reportedly the ashes reached the city of Medan
baru songon dia ma muse~then what else
be ari ho mambias au~every day you hate me
be ari isi tubi manuk~every day there is a cockfight
be ari minggu tubi manuk~every Sunday cockfight
be borngin rohahi daina daldal~every night my heart feels gloomy
be manisia mampuna bolat hasabamon~every human being has a limit of patience
be moru laos gok mulak~Every time it decreases, it becomes full again
be taon jolma batak marolophon~Every year Batak people celebrate
be tingki na torus torbang~every time that passes
bege di ruar paributhu pa~Listen outside, it's noisy, right?
bege ma ni angkang unsok~Listen to that, bro
bege olo asi unang jugul~Listen, darling, don't be stubborn
bege soso sian hami on~listen to our advice
beha bajuna saut manang ndada~how the clothes are made or not
beha dongan isi aha ulaning~how are you friends, what's going on?
beha haadongon pat sa asi~How is his leg, darling?
beha lebaran hita ulak mulak~how do we repeat Eid again?
beha lebaran hita ulak muse~how do we do Eid again?
beha ma muse ra dibahen~how else can it be made?
beha manang naung i sundati~How come it has been cancelled?
beha pandaoni manang mardalan hamsar~how about a healer? is it running smoothly?
beha ra dibahen ingkon diula~How to make it, it has to be done
beha sara manganju dohot lambok~how to caress gently
beha sara mangaririt karejo di~how to apply for a job at
beha sasintongna panghilalaanmu mandapothon au~how do you really feel about me
beha sasintongna panghilalaanmu tu dirihu~how do you really feel about me
benda loni ho eol sa~when you move slowly
bene ma tingkina mangalap gogo~I'm tired, it's time to rest
benget dohot hatop hipas asi~be strong and get well soon dear
bereng ma aha na didokhonna~look what he says
bereng ma ibana roa sahali~look at how ugly he is
bernit bagihu tumaon rimas hu~it hurts me to hold back my anger
beta annon hita marbada tenju~Come on, let's have a fist fight
beta ari rebo hita ebati~Come on, Wednesday, let's go
beta bonar dohot unang pauneunehon~come on and don't give up
beta dalan pat tu hauma~let's walk to the rice fields
beta dongan hita manuhor kopi~Come on, friends, let's buy coffee
beta hita mangiran sada huta~let's hunt a village
beta hita marende rap rampak~let's sing together
beta ihuton na sian medan~Come on, follow those from the field
beta ise na boi alus~Come on, who can answer?
beta ma martumbuk ma hita~come on, let's box
beta mangan jo indahan hopolna~Come on, let's eat the packaged rice first
beta mangan rap binsan pere~let's eat together while it's free
beta marsada mandahop jala sada~let's unite and embrace as one
beta tu jabu mi haluang~Come on, let's go to your house, bro
betak do ho saut punahu~could you be mine
betak ra tuhor motor imbaru~maybe want to buy a new car
betak somal ditangani angkang ni~Maybe my brother usually takes care of it
betak somal ditangani angkang ni~Who knows, my brother usually takes care of it
bianghu adong ma anak rumar~my dog is an illegitimate child
biar au godang na patialaon~I'm afraid I'll faint a lot
biar au halalapan mangan ho~I'm afraid I'll forget to eat you
biar ho isi na tangko~I'm afraid someone will steal it
biar porot suga dengke assim~afraid of getting caught in salted fish spines
biarna ho sumolsol dohot ahu~I'm afraid you'll regret me
bias loni au ari on~I'm bored today
bias loni hu ida sa~I hate seeing it
bias ondeng tanggo pipi sa~I just hate seeing his face
bibir on hea ho umma~You've kissed these lips before
bidadari siulubalang ari sopola handehande~earth angel without a shawl
bilut badia dohot maga badia~holy and most holy place
bilut martapian ruang tamue emper~bathroom, living room, terrace
bingkas boruboru sibabi jalang apas~you disgusting whore
bingkas ho tudos tongosan rapan~You're like a trash can
bingkas hombar jabu babana marjaitjaiotan~The neighbor has a tough mouth
bingkas limutlimuton ninna jolma batak~In ancient times, Batak people said
bingkas manisia ndada mampuna utokutok~Basically humans don't have brains
bingkas on ndada masuk angkal~this cause makes no sense
bingkas roa mora bodat bohim~You are as ugly as a monkey with your face
binsan adong dope hophop ma~while there is still fighting
binsan borua dohot bagak marbogasma~while girls and beauties get married
binsan hita nari dilean tingki~while we still have time
bistok sahali bahen ramuan lompalompana~Very clever at making recipes
boan andaliman anggo tu medan~Bring andaliman when you go to the field
boan bagas tangiang nahinan dainang~take your late mother in prayer
boan borua dongan asa dasip~bring a friend's girl so it's patent
boan ma au tu rohami~take me to your heart
boan ma di bagas tangiang~take it in prayer
boanma au tu tano hatutubum~take me to your homeland
boasa abahan nasida tudos on~why is their culture like this
boasa adong karosi di binanga~why are there chairs in the river
boasa annon anggo boi saonari~why later if you can do it now?
boasa au sipanggaron tudos ni~why do I act like that
boasa balga babami martimbanghon dagingmi~why is your mouth bigger than your body?
boasa balga hian tambon mi~why is your ass so big?
boasa bangkomu nuaeng naung muba~Why has your character changed now?
boasa boi abalabal dohot pidom~Why? can it be chaotic and snotty?
boasa boi gabe hona adat~why could it be subject to custom?
boasa bojok piu holangholang sada~why are you confused about choosing between one?
boasa do anak on dongan~why is this kid bro
boasa do au olo tuhan~why me oh my god
boasa haberengan murhing hamuna luhut~why do you all look sullen?
boasa halak on leleng hian~why is this guy taking so long
boasa halakna dang dope ro~why hasn't the person arrived yet?
boasa hamuna dang mangulahon tugas~why don't you do your homework?
boasa hamuna dua marbahasa indonesia~why do you both speak Indonesian?
boasa hamuna jungkat tu au~why are you mean to me
boasa hamuna jungkat tu au~why are you mean to me
boasa hamuna mabiar tu au~why are you afraid of me
boasa hamuna mambahen parsorion gellenghu~why do you make my child's destiny
boasa hamuna mambahenna parsorion gellenghu~why did you make it my son's destiny
boasa hamuna marhatai tarsingot bola~why are you talking about football
boasa hamuna marjuang demi au~why are you fighting for me
boasa hamuna ndang dope modom~why haven't you slept yet?
boasa hamuna pangke hata hasian~why do you use all the words dear?
boasa hamuna rame rame dison~why are you so crowded here?
boasa hamuna sude puna masala?~why do you all have problems?
boasa hamuna todos tu au~why do you work so hard for me/
boasa hamuna tong marsak sajo~why are you still gloomy?
boasa hape anak mi baio~why does it look like your child bro?
boasa hita ndada mardame ondeng~why don't we just make peace?
boasa ho hassang pa au~why are you crazy about me?
boasa ho holong di ahu~why do you love me
boasa ho jou au holi~why do you call me bone
boasa ho leas ndang leas~why are you indifferent
boasa ho lungun doge holonghi~why are you sad, my darling
boasa ho mallumpat lumpat apala~why are you jumping around like that?
boasa ho manampung angkat apala~why are you jumping around like that?
boasa ho mangorai au mengkel~why do you forbid me to laugh
boasa ho ndada sijulejule nangkin~why didn't you have a social gathering earlier?
boasa ho ndang dope maradi~why haven't you rested yet?
boasa ho nuaeng apala ngali~why are you so cold now
boasa ho sahiti torus inangmi~why do you keep hurting your mother
boasa ho tongtong manggabusi au~why do you always lie to me
boasa huroha aha masalana rapho~why does it seem like what's the problem with you?
boasa huroha ai ho bereng?~why are you looking?
boasa huroha anggo au niang~why does it look like I'm skinny?
boasa huroha anggo borua marisap~why does it look like girls smoke?
boasa huroha anggo hu ungkap~why does it look like when I open it?
boasa huroha ho lului ma~why are you looking for it?
boasa jolma dang boto ila~why are people shameless,
boasa jolma jotjot marhata asal~why do people always talk nonsense
boasa jolma jungkat tu au~why are people mean to me
boasa jolma matua sada on~why this one parent
boasa jolma mora tongtong dipajolo~why do rich people always come first?
boasa jolma on tu son~why is this person here
boasa jolmai adong di pudi~why is that person at the back?
boasa lungun roha mi hasian~why are you sad darling?
boasa ma ateate ndang manontu~why do you feel uncertain?
boasa manegai ende songon ni~why ruin the song like that
boasa mangharuarhon baju di ruar~why take your clothes outside?
boasa maol hian di talipon~why is it so hard to get on the phone?
boasa maol hian di uhai~why is it so hard to contact?
boasa maruap goar imana muse~why does it smell like his name again?
boasa muse dohot tihas pardijabu~What's wrong with your ex-wife?
boasa ndang dope digarar karejohu~why haven't I been paid for my work?
boasa ngolukku tongtong ago nasida~why is my life always difficult for them
boasa on manjadi ndada mangarimpu~why this happened, I don't know
boasa oto hian hamuna on~why are you guys so stupid?
boasa pasombu nasida marbogas daging~why let them have sex?
boasa sisik ho bontar loni~why is your skin white?
boasa songoni bohina mida jolma~why does his face look like that when he looks at people?
boasa songoni pambahenanmi tu ahu?~why do you do that to me?
boasa songonon holan alani margait?~why is it like this just for fun?
boasa songonon na hu atup~why is this what I'm facing?
boasa songonon na huhilalahon dainang~why do I feel like this mom
boasa tona mi di sesa~Why was your message deleted?
boasa tuba songon dainang panoroni~why are you fierce like a stepmother?
boasa tulang lao sahatop on~Why did uncle leave so soon?
boban aha na saut pikkiranmu~What burdens are on your mind?
boha do main doho ?~how do you play?
boha do taringot tu pesta~how do you remember going to a party?
boha ma rohahi rampak mi~how my heart is with you
boha pe na saut masalam~whatever your problem is
boha pe ulahon asal halal~Whatever you do, as long as it's halal!
bohi ho songon hire andurian~Your face looks like hedgehog dandruff
bohi roa alai martubi bagak~ugly face but looks beautiful
bohi tobok ate marlapatan denggan~an innocent face doesn't mean good
bohihu sungkana daginghu santokin togap~my face is awkward. my body suddenly stiffened
bohim tongtong taralimos diroha hu~Your face is always in my mind
bohimi lagak alai rohami jungkat~Your appearance is handsome but your heart is evil
boho ae giot au manungkun~satisfy my desire to ask
boho na hea au hilalahon~exactly what I've felt
boho songon ho sipanggaron ho~just like you, acting like you
boho songon ho sipanggaron ho~just like you, acting like you.
boi asal i paima haroroanhu~You can just wait for my arrival
boi au saut hamlet mi~can I be your girlfriend
boi do au gabe kedanmu~can i be your friend?
boi do au saut helam~May I be your son-in-law
boi do au talipon ho~can I call you?
boi do au talipon ho~can I call you?
boi do holan manalahon ondeng~usually just blame
boi hansur au puna baoang~can be crushed I have onions
boi ibana mamonanghon paraloan ni~can he win the competition
boi ida na dia bohihu~can you see which one is my face
boi lului gombar bulung botik~Can you find a picture of a papaya leaf?
boi ma pa jolma batak~Batak people can do it
boi ma sadihari tu on~can you come here anytime?
boi mengendos dohot ina mi~can have sex with your mother
boi pajumpang iboto di matau~can meet relatives overseas
boido au mangongkos kareta angin~can i rent a bike?
bojok au ingkon songon dia~I'm confused about what I should do
bojok ida manisia jaman nuaeng~confused by today's people
bolak tudos adaran tunjang bal~as wide as a football field
bolas alai aha ali sa~Yes, but what's the reward?
bolas au jama dali ho~can I hold your milk?
bolas do au jama hurummu~can I hold your cheek?
bolas ma tarhilala tais musem~it can be quite far too
bolas ma unang das tenggen~keep going, don't get drunk
boli ma baju di lapo~buy clothes at the store
boli ma barang tigatiga au~buy the goods I sell.
bolo tangan ndada tarrahut sirarion~if your hands are not tied tightly
bona ni rambutan marparbue godang~The rambutan tree bears a lot of fruit
bonai ari mi dohot supingan~start your day with a smile
bonai taon dohot hasalaan naumbalga~start the year with the biggest mistake
bonana boi di pasaut hau~The stems can be made into wood
bonana di pinalolo itak sagu~stems to be used as sago flour
bonana ido jeges loni uarnana~The stem has a nice color
bonar ama mura rajuman sa~Father's enthusiasm is cheap and his good fortune
bonar anggi na ra marlumba~enthusiastic little brother who wants to compete
bonar ho tangkas boi mangalaosina~Your spirit will definitely get through it
bonar holi mura rajuman sa~bone spirit. his fortune is cheap
bonar ima sinjata mula hita~enthusiasm is our initial weapon
bonar lulu daram tuau asi~enthusiasm for earning a living for me dear
bonar mandopang rap anak hinomit~the spirit of fighting together with the people
bonar marjuang demi tujoloan niari~spirit to fight for the future
bonar marjuang di tingki jolo~spirit to fight for the future
bonar totar torus olle ho~Keep on developing your talents
bonar tulang unang asi hondur~Uncle's spirit, don't give slack!
bondut ondeng sadasa aganan paet~Just swallow it yourself, even if it's bitter
bongak hian manjangkit pe boi~It's really great, you can even climb
bongka na ndada tarjalo pikkiran~illogical thing
bonor ma agan ni naboritan~be honest even if it hurts
bonor ma di diri sadasa~be honest with yourself
bonton on bahasa jaua sa~This is heavy in Javanese
bontor do rohami manjalo hahurangonhi~Your heart sincerely accepts my shortcomings
borhat pungkul sadia hita marsogot~What time do we leave tomorrow?
borit sahali deba daging on~this part of the body really hurts
borngin hasian hu na labu~my favorite gathering night
borngin mangan biar lamu gomuk~eat at night afraid of getting fatter
borngin minggu na gok hapuloan~a lonely weekend
borngin minggu tastas opat nomor~Saturday night reached four points
borngin on au nunga marpadan~tonight I have promised
borngin on bagak huhut jeges~tonight is beautiful and good
borngin on hita sundat pajumpang~tonight we failed on a date
boru batak dang adong duana~Batak girl with two clubs
borua bajar pangido poto saesae~Teenage girls ask for naked photos
borua batak dang adong dua~two-mace Batak girl
borua metmet bagak martujung gorsing~beautiful little girl in a yellow headscarf
borua nauli andorang mangan martabak~beautiful girl when eating martabak
borua ni ndada di digalege~the girl is not to be ruined
borua on bagak donda sahali~This girl is very beautiful and graceful
borua poso na au ra~the young girl I want
boruboru bagak andorang mangan martabak~beautiful woman is eating martabak
boruboru boruboru sibabi jalang panipu~deceitful bitch
boruboru di pudi nanaeng pangoli~the woman behind the bride and groom
boruboru na marpos ni roha~hopeful woman
boruboru ni di radot sasudena~the woman is taken care of by everything
boruboru timbil malo mangaradoti panghilalaanna~Women are the best at keeping their feelings hidden
bosar ma asi dohot tumpalna~great is his love and grace.
bosi jorat di porda sabi~iron binding for the sickle handle
botari ari di topi hauma~afternoon on the edge of the rice fields
botari na jagar dohot marlinang~a beautiful and radiant afternoon.
botari ro tomu sang bulan~Dusk comes to greet the moon
boti ma barita ruas ari~that is the message of the congregation today
boti ma pustaha au on~that's my letter
boti ma saotik olap au~that's a little about me
boto do ho lonsam bintang~do you know the number of stars
bou ho tarurupi miak angur~Your smell is helped by perfume
buat denggan sa bolong burukna~take the good, throw away the bad
buathon sibuk babi na marmudar~bring me the bloody pork
bugang on ris pande bagas~This wound is quite deep
buha buha ijuk ima pukul~just open it, just hit it
buhai manuturi diri sian nuaeng~start organizing yourself from now on
buktihon holong dohot asi niroham~prove your love and affection
buktihon sabalga aha holong mi~prove how much you love
buku hita di buat sian~our book is taken from
bulan didia partaonan semi mamanghulingi~the month where spring greets
bulan mullop dohot apala bagakna~the moon appeared so beautiful
bulan najolo ma molo songoni~next month then
bulung sian dangka hau ido~leaves from the branches of the tree
bulungna di pasaut sipadot tarugi~The leaves are made into broom sticks
bunga kincung belum mekar tanggung~crossbar
burjum ndada di au asi~Your good is not with me darling
buruon anggo palelenghu patupa sigaret~Hurry up if it's too late to provide cigarettes
busbus hu haruarhon mulak paraloan~I immediately put out the fight again
busuk dang adong na tarida~there is no rot in sight
butima surat on au jahahon~That's how I read this letter
butong jinak losok lalu margorak~full, tame, lazy, already feeling
butuha au naung marsigorgor on~My stomach is already churning
butuha barnit ulu hansit ulu~stomach aches, headache
butuha hansit dungkon mangan honas~stomach ache after eating pineapple
butuha hu hansit mangan lasiak~My stomach hurts from eating chili
butuha male hepeng ndada isi~hungry stomach, money is not there
dabu ndada tais sian bonani~doesn't fall far from the tree
dada ahu guru di ahu~my god my teacher to me
daga hepeng tu son ma~oh money, come here!
daga tudos ni hatotong au~Wow, that surprised me
daging au use olo ampun~My body is spilling, oh my gosh
daging gale luhut horhon hinos~the body is weak all due to fatigue
daging hu manggirgir alani male~my body was shaking with hunger
daging ngangaetan ngangaetan mata mondok~body aches, eyes drowsiness
dahopanmu na dohar mangagohon lungunhu~Your hug can take away my sadness
daina mambahen sialap ingkau manggirgir~the taste makes the tongue tremble
daina ra au ompashon uluhu~I feel like I'm going to blow my head off
dainang aha habarmu ari on~Mom, how are you today?
dainang andorang mangalompa di dapur~mom is cooking in the kitchen
dainang pande aek nunga ro~The waterman's mother has arrived
dainang puna panopano pala godang~Mom has a lot of acne
dalan annon jala natuatua au~chance. I'll be my elder later.
dalan dalanna hami jonok huta~Our walk was near the village
dalan hita rampak rampak rais~Our road is just as steep
dalan ido jala metmet hirimonna~that chance became less hopeful
dalan nanget huhut patamahon diri~walk slowly while steadying yourself
dalan sadasa i tonga bajo~walking alone among thieves
dalan torus tudiape hami ra~go wherever we want
dalani ngolu on dohot supingan~live this life with a smile
dali balga birat muse ojak~big plump breasts stand up again
damang andorang mangula di hauma~father was hoeing in the rice field
damang au sahalak marusaha sandiri~my dad is an entrepreneur
damang ina on hela hamuna~Mom and Dad, this is your son-in-law
damang mananggo hau dohot gargaji~Dad cuts wood with a saw
damporna au marhatai aha olo~What do I like to talk about?
damporna na muse dalan dalan~it's nice to be walking
dang adong ardoan rampak au~it has nothing to do with me
dang adong au masak olo~I'm not cooking, okay?
dang adong dope pasangan bah~There's still no partner yet
dang adong dope sigaret mi~Do you still have cigarettes?
dang adong guna na be~it's no use anymore
dang adong hepeng daging gale~no money limp body
dang adong hepeng di pauli~no money to repair
dang adong hepeng iba do~there is no money in the account
dang adong hepeng sude manghuling~no money all sounds
dang adong jumpa hita nadua~no one met the two of us
dang adong matamu mamereng songonon~none of your eyes see like this
dang adong muatan modom jolo~no load of sleep just yet
dang adong muse diri mi~there is no more you
dang balos alani nang modom~didn't reply because he was sleeping
dang boi molo siang lae~You can't do it during the day
dang boi muba loja au~can't change, I'm tired
dang dope sarapan tarhirana ya~I haven't had breakfast yet, I think
dang lomo dohot anak jaua~I don't like Javanese kids
dang manuhor pupuk do hamu~didn't buy your fertilizer
dang pola boha botak ito~It doesn't matter how bald a man greets his sister
dang sandang on andurian siam~not pregnant, this is a male hedgehog
dang taboan au dohot ibana~I don't feel comfortable with him
dang tudos na ho pikkirhon~not what you think
dangadong hepenghu nunga habis hasian~I don't have any money, dear
dao muse ari nunga borngin~it was already evening far away
daong ma bahasa lopok au~is not my main language
dapothon torsa turiturian na ganjang~ahead of a long story
daredare ma sundat saut hela~Get ready to fail as a son-in-law
das anak tulluk pitu pompar~until the grandchildren have seven generations
das andigan pe au manghaholongimu~forever I love you
das di banjar bara lombu~arrived at a row of cow pens
das di sangga au borhat~until the moment I leave
das dison ho antus pa~At this point, you understand, right?
das jolma kristen pe dungo~until Christians wake up
das jumpa di pudi onan~See you at the weekend
das luhut uluni tot marsinggang~until all knees knelt
das puna pahompu dohot nini~to have grandchildren and great-grandchildren
das sadihari hapogoson on tulus~how long will this poverty last?
das sadihari i godung atelit~how long will it be at the athlete's homestead?
das sigaret pe ndada tartuhor~even cigarettes can't be bought
das tuhan magohon ae on~until God takes away this feeling
dasingan sahalak manisia boi hasea~measure of how successful a person can be
daulat ma di ahu asi~be loyal to me darling
deba balga mambongoti huta pardolokan~most inhabit mountainous areas
deba mamboan lombar ardo donganna~Some of them brought their friends' question sheets
deba manurat di palak tangan~some write on the palm of the hand
dembal ma dohar hepeng au~hit me and get my money
demi hadengganon ndada marroha asing~for the sake of goodness does not mean anything else
demi ho au naung jora~for your sake I have repented
demokrasi ate erom ni roha~democracy is not hostility
denggal sahali pipi angkang on~This brother's face is very tense
denggan dagingna dohot manubuhon hu~pregnant and giving birth to me
denggan denggan hamuna marhata hata~OK, okay, you guys said the words
denggan denggan olo rampak tomu~OK, OK, one after another
denggan do dalan tu an~Is it good to go there?
denggan dokan bahasa batak angkang~Batak language is good, bro
denggan hian sara mi marhatai~it's really nice the way you talk
denggan hian soaraii da inang~That voice is very nice, Mama
denggan jalo asi ginjang poda~well thanks for the advice
denggan jalo asi ginjang soso~well thanks for the advice
denggan marsiajar huhut ringgas martangiang~good at studying and praying diligently
denggan roha dohot denggan pangalaho~kind and good morals
dengganma unang dipasuman da angkang~That's good, don't copy it, brother
dengke assim lao tu jabu~salted fish went home
dengke assim naung ho tangko~you have stolen the salted fish
dengke boi ditangkup dohot ditutung~fish can be caught and grilled
dengke mekap marupahon sala sada~Ornamental fish is one of them
derem ma di lambung jesus~rest beside Jesus
di angkang na pala huasi~for the sister I love so much
di ari asing sasara tarpinjil~on another day separately
di ari on au male~today I am hungry
di bagas surgo rap tuhan~in heaven with God
di bagian aha do ho~what fate do you have?
di balos dohot tingki oto~responded with indifference
di bara sa isi babi~There are pigs in the pen
di be tangianghi isi goarmu~In every prayer I have your name
di bege tangiang aninganing hamuna~heard your prayers
di bondar sampulu isi ulaula~in trench ten there is work
di boritan hu au jogi~in my pain I am strong
di borngin ari bintang saksak~at night the stars sparkle
di busbus taruli habar denggan~to get good news soon
di gali ni ari on~on today's match
di hamlethu na di an~for my girl over there
di harati bagudung baju ina~bitten by my mother's clothes rat
di hatiaan ari kota medan~for Medan city weather forecast
di hepeng lotak boi sonang~for shop money it can be safe
di huta muse partaonan aha~what season is it in the village?
di jabu. boasa mangido mulak~At home. why ask to go home
di jambar on na huhaholongi~for this part that I love
di lean pandok raja parbue~given the name king of fruit
di mamelehon pelean tu tuhan~to offer sacrifices to God
di manggohi haporluon ngolu sasadari~to meet the needs of daily life
di manghorhon jolma asing asa~to influence others to do so
di masuk tu manghajongjonghon dosa~to go into confession
di mida asal habinsarna mataniari~to see where the sun rises
di mulana adong ma hata~in the beginning was the word
di mulana adong ma hata~in the beginning was the word;
di mulana masuk ugamo hindu~At first he converted to Hinduism
di nari di sopo ndada~while still in the hut no
di ndada lomos naeng hansit~not to worry about getting sick
di ndada mambias di panggeno~not to hate the destroyer
di olohon nasida marmansam gulmiton~they do various movements
di oto otoi au olo~I'm stupid. I'm stupid
di pabali pala asi roha~very sad to be fired
di pahiandu marmata mamak on~for this wide-eyed wanderer
di pandok tuk leheng loni~I was told that I was tired and stubborn
di pangolu ma jo ni~turn it on first
di parhutaan godang loni hauma~In the village there are many rice fields
di pasahathon parbaritaon hata tuhan~to convey the message of God's word
di pasupasu tuhan langka hita~God bless our steps
di paulak di jolma matua~sent home to parents
di puang na sian medan~for friends from Medan
di pustaha soara loni on~in the sound library this time
di roro sillam didia ni~was struck by lightning where it was
di sambal siak ondol sintong~in spicy chili sauce, it's really good
di sambok tudos hambing hita~whipped like our goats
di sambola apotan sian banua~to the south of the continent
di sangga longo manorui diri~when silence comes to you
di santokin mangalap gogo jo~rest for a while
di son hamaradongon haholongan mi~here is where your lover is
di songonima halina au mabugang~For the first time I've been hurt
di suru tulang tuhor ubat~I was told by my uncle to buy medicine
di tio sa bal simalolonghi~in the clarity of my eyeballs
di topi ni tae i~on the edge of the plan
di toru ni bara ruma~under the house chocolates
di ulaon bangko tongtong dipatupa~it is always served at traditional events
di undur das hala lima~postponed until the fifth
dia isi au mambege nangkin~Where did I hear that?
dia isi au manangihon nangkin~Where was I listening?
dia lomo au mangan gotani~I like to eat the sap
dia ma tupa sauli on~where could it be as beautiful as this?
dia na ingkon au pature~which one should I assemble?
dia pa rampak huting bolang~where's the striped cat?
dia supingna bahen au asi~where's the smile for me darling?
diain bonton ditanom palobihu bagas~lifted heavily, buried too deep
diangkat hami ma ho ate~We jumped, you didn't
dianju aganan lebaran naung bolus~forgiven... even though Eid is over
dibahen ho hami luhut hebo~because of you we are all noisy
diboan tu inganan paranginanginan santokin~taken to a temporary resting place
dibuat musem ujungna dongan ni~finally the friend took it
didia ama angkang di kobun~where are you in the garden?
didia ho ampehon karosi i~where did you put the chair?
didia ho boi alapi au?~where can you pick me up?
didia ho inang au masihol~where are you mom I miss you
didia ho jumpa panangga hu~where did you meet my dog?
didia ho marsogot hu jumpangi~where are you I'll see you tomorrow
didia ho peak aek nangkin~where did you put the water?
didia ho talam moru sude~where do you have all your remaining balance reduced?
didia ho tanda boru borui~where do you know that woman?
didia ho tuhor napuran on~where did you buy this betel
didia ho tuhor sipatu i~where did you buy those shoes?
didia parompuan mangaririt baea baea~where a woman proposes to a man
didia pe hita ingkon pajumpang~wherever we will meet
didia sa angkang mangantar manuk~where does my brother deliver the chicken?
didongani ombun manogot na papurpurhon~accompanied by the cool morning dew
diganup bulan dua hali pakansi~two holidays every month
diha na i pukul nangkin~was it you who was hit earlier?
dijangkon gareja hita mandok hamauliatehon~received by our church thanksgiving
dilam dohot rohami tudos rapan~your tongue and your heart are like rubbish
dinamika pala bagak mamuntarhon suasana~Very cool dynamics, breaks the atmosphere
diolohon manang di oloi angkup~agreed or approved by
diotoi au dohot hatahata mi~I was deceived by your words
dipabali angkup punsu ni butuha~expelled by the anus
dipabotohon tu ama dohot ina~notified to father and mother
dipabotohon tu luhut ruas ala~notified to all congregations that
dipainte i simpang opat dalan~waiting at the crossroads
dipangke dohot sara di golom~used by hand
dipangke rampak baea baea ni~worn by the man
diparadihon sa langka pareakhon hauma~He stopped walking towards the fields
diparmeamhon rohana angkup baea baea~having her feelings played with by men
dipasupasu tuhan andorang ari on~God bless you all this day
dipasupasu tuhan ariarim tu jolona~God bless your days ahead
dipatoru ndang dope tontu hetek~being humbled is not necessarily low
diranap sa au leleng leleng~I looked at it for a long time
diri sadasa ai i paila~Why are you embarrassing yourself?
dirim ni mangehet aha mamuji~Are you mocking or praising?
disada sangga annon ama manumbang~someday you will donate
disarat horbo rere tu bara?~dragged the buffalo mat to the chocolate
dison rio isi jolma batak~There are rarely Batak people here
disuru amangamangna ibana radot pidong~Her husband told her to look after the birds
ditanda jamu do halak on~Is this person known as herbal medicine?
ditompa tingko dohot di balut~shaped round and wrapped
ditongos tu dia ama guru~sent to where Mr. teacher?
ditubuhon ajar dohot i pabalga~born, educated and raised
ditubuhon mulak angkup hata jahoba~born again by the word of god
ditutung hinan imbaru tu laut~burned first and then into the sea
diunung di bagas holong asi~proposed in love
dodot bonosan sinta na sabagasbagasna~My deep condolences
dodot bonosan sinta na umbagas~deepest condolences
dohar ma ate ho amangamanghu~Thank goodness you're not my husband
dohar mangihot tali pardonganon hami~can tie our ties of brotherhood
dohar pardijabu namarbaju manang balu~can be a virgin wife or widow
dohonon ma pupus ni tondihu~say my beloved
dohot amangamangna adong ma au~and her husband is me
dohot anak boru pe sohot~and the daughter got married
dohot anggiat hasea di parkarejoanna~and good luck for your work
dohot au lomo suping manismu~and I like your sweet smile
dohot au ndada tarhurim muse~and I don't hope anymore
dohot bagas tota angkup tota~and in an orderly and orderly manner
dohot biasbias ni mangkorhon parbadaan~and that hatred results in quarrels
dohot biji ma ungut ungut~and grains are tentacles
dohot bohal aha adong do~with whatever supplies you have
dohot damo ende pa ma~with a melodious song, right:
dohot di umboto tudostudos holangholang~and to find out the comparison between
dohot dihomat dohot tangiang pasupasu~and closed with a prayer of blessing
dohot dohot mangalithon kaen mandar~and by wearing a sarong
dohot dongan inganan hami marraungraung~and friends on whom we depend
dohot gabe pasupasu di humaliangmu~and be a blessing to those around you
dohot giot pasonanghon jolma matua~and want to make parents happy
dohot gok aropan dohot habiaran~full of hope and anxiety
dohot gok hatotongan mambege angguliman~with complete astonishment hearing the words
dohot hajanghajang mambaritahon ulaon tanganna~and the firmament proclaims the work of his hands
dohot hita tongtong dilehon hagompison~and we are always given health
dohot huboan ho tudos dirihu~and I will take you as myself
dohot ibana mambunu tondina sadasa~and he killed his own soul
dohot ibana mangeper sasude hagogoonhu~and he doubted all my abilities
dohot ibana ro mangapuli lungunmu~and he comes to comfort your sadness
dohot ise ho martumpol sa~who are you engaged to?
dohot lung dohot mamparhaseanghon lung~with nature and utilizing nature
dohot mangajar sadasa di jabu~and teach yourself at home
dohot mataniari pa hot nala~and the sun is still burning
dohot mengkelmu na buat sandu~and your laugh is addictive
dohot na naeng jala oroanna~with his future fiancé
dohot na sihabiaron manjadi musem~and what was feared happened too
dohot nasida hundul mengadap meja~and they sat facing the table
dohot naung diarihon dolidoli ni~and the man already has it
dohot olap habadiaon huhut haburjuonmi~and about your holiness and goodness
dohot on hami boahon ala~we hereby inform you that
dohot pahompu martapian di binanga~with grandchildren bathing in the river
dohot pangulu anak mi jesus~through your son Jesus
dohot pasombu hu mamohul tanganmu~and let me hold your hand
dohot pingkiran na torus manombo~with thoughts that keep racing
dohot salombar holong na lambang~with a sheet of empty love
dohot sangajo sopola tohap manariashon~intentionally without the right to announce
dohot sorat isi tolopan sian~with complete approval from
dohot subang mundur indonesia hu~and never back down my Indonesia
dohot tompuk tangan na torop~with thunderous applause
dohot tongtong marhasianhon halobian dirina~and always prioritizes his own privileges
dohot unang asi au hamenakon~and don't give me comfort
dohot unang hea meret roha~and never change your heart
dohotdo au anggo huta sina~I'll follow you to the Chinese village
dok ma denggan pantun sorta~speak with good manners
dokhon sabonarna mandapothon au asi~tell me the truth darling
dolidoli bongak sitaoar dingin roha~cool handsome man
dolidoli ingkon jogi dohot marparange~Youth must be tough and moral
dolidoli ndada lomo dali migar~Men don't like spoiled milk
dolok, buhit pe boi morot~Even hills can shift
domdom tondi na mangalaplap haram~the roar of the soul that hits the shipwreck
donda lompit kaen ni jo~Gracefully fold the cloth first
dongan tudos parmossak tuak ho~friends like your palm wine warrior
donganhu pandok anggo ni hamletmu~my friend said that it was your boyfriend
donganhu targora mamalu botohonna santokin~My friend played with his hands immediately
dongani annon au olo asi~hang out with me later, darling...
dongani au dohot tondonghu tuhan~accompany me and my family God
dongani ho dohot ate ibana~accompany you and not him
dongani mate satongkin mi jo~accompany your little brother first
donganmi on naung tinodo tuhan~Your friend has been appointed by God
donganmu muse ndang marhepeng on~Your friend is broke
dorunna roha on tedak muse~It's hard for my heart to open again
dua ari muse imbaru huar~Two more days before unpacking
dua batis mata hepeng logam~two coins
dua paredangedang na marsangkap denggan~two well-intentioned adventurers
dua pulu onom ribu rupia~twenty six thousand rupiah
dua samudora dohot dua banua~two oceans and two continents
dua samudora dohot i banua~two oceans and on continents
dungkon au manarehon diri nuaeng~that's why I'm preparing myself now
dungkon hail sa i danggur~after the hook is thrown
dungkon hu bagihon rohahi bahenmu~after I gave my heart to you
dungkon ido ende ho pareso~that's why you're studying the song
dungkon ndang ina inganan marlinggom~after mother had no shelter
dungkon ni au manghobas jabu~after that I cleaned the house
dungkon ni gadongna di hurhur~after that the cassava is grated
dungkon ni udut muse karejo~after that do you continue working?
dungkon udan naeng ro halibutongan~after the rain there will come a rainbow
dungkon unang leas pa au~so don't be trivial with me
dungkonsa ho soara ho roa~unless you have a bad voice
dungo ma asi sian modommu~Wake up darling from your sleep
dungoi au pungkul longa ualu~wake me up at half past eight
ebati laos matehon jolma ni~come and then kill that person
ekonomi sibontar mata lam manimbuknimbuk~The Dutch economy continues to grow
elekelek di baragas pa amang~Please allow me, sir
elekelek ho ungkap pintu rohahi~please open the door to my heart
elekelek tangiangni luhut di tano~please pray for everyone for the land
ende di anak parompuan sadasadana~song for the only daughter
ende na manghatahon isi roha~songs that express what's in your heart
ende timbil tabo di bege~the best song to listen to
endehon hita sada ende jo~sing us a song first
engkelmi manamuei mambahen ahu sihol~Your entertaining laughter makes me miss you
gabe ari on ingkon sae~so today it should be finished
gabe lobi denggan martimbanghon angkiningan~be better than before
gabe magigi maniop rumput ate~So it's disgusting to touch grass
gabe pambarani manang gabe bargak~be brave or be a coward
gabe pasupasu di bagas tuhan~be a blessing in God
gabe toras dohot tubu rap~mature and grow together
gadap musem au di bilut~I also lay in the room
gadis dengke nangkin omo ngail~sell the fish you caught
gadis pusaka tagan tarlambat pahompuhu~sell the inheritance before it's too late my grandson
gaji dang dope di garar~salary has not been paid
gaji panggomgomi on naung balga~This official's salary is already large
galang do mula ni harajaon~support the beginning of the kingdoms
gandeng au tu palaminan angkang~take me to the altar, brother
ganjang punam tudos aras listirik~yours is as long as an electric pole
ganti pahean hamu jala on~copy your clothes into this.
ganup saptu ndada boi ro~Can't come every Saturday
garangna ho ra haruarhon au~How dare you want to kick me out
garar ma tota be bulan~pay regularly every month
garar ondeng jo ongkos arga~just pay the price first
gari nasida adong ma situmpak~while they are supporters
gari songgot silas ni roha~even suddenly happy
gari ulaula di mangompa digora~while the tool for carrying is called
gartip ondeng boasa i paso~Just curious why it was stopped
gasa au tanggo tondong dison~I'm furious to see the family here
gasa tanggo jolma na jabir~Angry at the sight of talkative people
gasagasaon ibana marepet ganjang mamak~he raged at length
geanggeang baju na habir arbing~clothes hanger, which hangs hanging
ginjang abahan na ho arihon~about your culture
ginjang roha alai ndang tilhang~arrogant but not naughty
ginjang rohana dihatahon jalo asi~Say thank you for your attention
ginjang tangiangni di dainang hami~for your prayers for our mother
ginjang toru lambung hambirang siamun~up down side left right
giot au inum mudarmi bolis~I want to drink your blood, Satan
giot au sonanghon mi ina~I want to make you happy, mother
giot hu pastap hurum sa~I want to slap his cheek
giot hu rase anak on~I want to exterminate this child
giot hu sidegeon pat disan~I want to set foot there
giot hu topari nasida mardua~I want to slap them both
giot lao alai anang hudia~I want to go but don't know where
giot las roha dohot bontis~want to be happy and relaxed
giot ma marsiajar asa bistok~study hard to be smart
giot mangalului hamenakon alai didia~want to find comfort but where?
giot martapian alai aekna ngali~want to take a shower, but the water is cold
giot mate hita di dalan~we almost died on the road
giot ni roha na marlobian~excessive pleasure
giot ni roha na sasintongna~true pleasure
giot sahali mamisat baba mi~I really want to squeeze your mouth
girgir amang tangkas boi mamolusna~Dad's enthusiasm will definitely get through
girgir tung pe nunga borngin~enthusiastic even though it's late at night
goar pangituai bagas tonel on~the names of the characters in this drama
goarhu daniel tabe tanda ale~My name is Daniel, nice to meet you
goarhu daniel tabe tanda bah~My name is Daniel, nice to meet you
goarmu ingkon hot tongtong badia~your name will always remain glorious
goarna ina panggomgomi ingkon bagakma~The official's name must be beautiful..
goarna musem pangido tu ompungna~He also asked his grandmother for his name
goarna ngolu na paasinghon dalanna~it's called life that differentiates its path
goarna sisik ndada lupa hassang~it's called the skin, don't forget the nuts
godang bintang puasa i langit~many stars scattered in the sky
godang dosamu sarupa donganmu on~You have a lot of sins with your friend
godang eol hutingkir holonghi on~I see many styles, my dear
godang hata ho denggan modom~I say a lot that you sleep well
godang hatana alai ndang hasea~He talks a lot but it's useless
godang haulion huhut hamoraon lung~lots of natural beauty and riches
godang jaha buku dohot bibel~read a lot of books and the Bible
godang jolma oto manjonok pamilian~a lot of stupid people leading up to the election
godang loni angka hata ho~you talk a lot
godang loni eolmu hu tingkir~I've seen your style many times
godang loni lehengna hu ida~I've seen his behavior many times
godang marhatai alai isina rumar~talk a lot but the content is empty
godang marsaor dohot jolma batak~hang out a lot with Batak people
godang masala di bajur tani~there are many problems in agricultural work
godang morot mambahen badanmu hipas~Moving a lot makes your body healthy
godang na ditaon on daging~Many people feel this is the body
godang rongit dohot mate palito~lots of mosquitoes and blackout
godang sahali hutu harbue on~there are lots of rice lice
godang sahali na tio tio~there are lots of clear ones
godang sahali pulungan sillam sa~there are lots of lightning potions
godangan mangan dohot modom olo~eat and sleep a lot...
godung na nunga i dungo~buildings that have been built
gogot marhatai rampak pangallang biang~It's hard to talk to a dog eater
gogotna mangalului hepeng di parhutaan~it is difficult to earn money in the village
goki dohot simangot badia mi~fill with your holy spirit
gomgomi ma hami olo tuhan~protect us, O God
gomgomi ma luhut tondong hu~protect all my family
gonong saridondonon jempek pir ulu~round, dirty, short, stubborn
gonong saridondonon utokutok guting nalahang~round dirty dirty brain selfish
gora portibi unang dibahen balga~world matters, don't make them big
goragora na upana tar paposhon~a call whose salary is rather convincing
goragora paduahon nunga tarbege muse~the second call has been heard again
gotil au ho hu galmit~pinch me, I pinch you
gulmiton dakdanak godang na ringkot~Many children's movements are funny
gulmiton ina guru tarbereng bagak~The teacher's movements look flexible.
guna pasidinghon pirus targora marrarat~to prevent the virus from spreading
gunahon bahasa indonesia unang huta~Use Indonesian, don't banjar
gunahon di na lobi marsauli~use it for something more useful
gunahon ma utokutok ho bodat~use your brain monkey
guntur do tohuk di sandok~There's a lot of noise from frogs all over the place
gupak on ragam boi lae~This machete is versatile, brother-in-law
haadongon ngolu nasida ndang manontu~their life circumstances are uncertain
haadongon tota nuaeng muse sandang~The standard situation is that I am now pregnant
habahaba na nirasahon ina kota~the storm that the capital city felt
habalangon jolma batak ni balga~Batak people's loyalty is great
habang pa partonggol raja mi~Raise your king's banner
habangsa simangot tuhan ndang tarbatas~the power of God's spirit is unlimited
habar hu denggan sajo dongan~I'm fine, friend
habar na ribur di au~exciting news for me
haberengan lagak hamu ari on~you look handsome today
haberenganna parbuena tabo dohot tonggi~the fruit looks delicious and sweet
habir ngaet manang ndang dope~depending on whether you have achieved it or not
habis ma naung diholangholang hita~it's over between us
habis urupi dainang mangalompa ditigatigahon~finished helping mom cook for sale
habis urupi dainang mangalompa tigatiga~finished helping mom cook the sales
habobongot ugamo silom dohot kristen~the entry of Islam and Christianity
habot di ari na tiur~cloudy on a bright day
haduan angkangmu naeng mangalapi ho~the day after tomorrow your brother will pick you up
haduan laos ari hita marrongkap~someday we will be soul mates
hadungonna ngolu adong ma hamamate~the end of life is death
hagogoonhi marrarat sandok siulubalang ari~My power spreads throughout the earth
hajanghajang na bolak dohot jagar~wide and beautiful horizons
hajolmaon na tigor dohot duma~just and prosperous humanity
hajolmaon na tigor dohot pantun~just and civilized humanity
hajolmaon na tigor dohot santun~just and civilized humanity
hala na diloplophon naung bolus~The date entered has expired
halomoanhu mangan huahua sibuk panangga~My favorite is eating dog meat soup
hamagoan jolma na hita holongi~losing someone we love
hamenakon marmula sian gait engkel~comfort begins with jokes & laughter
hami adong ma bangso batak~we are Batak tribe
hami adong ma pandaoni tarjago~we are the greatest healers
hami borontak ra aha ho~we rebel, what do you want?
hami isi di marhalado hamu~we are here to serve you
hami mangalehon diri mandapothon ho~we surrender ourselves to you
hami mangalopi panesa sian tuhan~We ask forgiveness from God
hami mangulahon unjun sasara tampak~We carry out tests simultaneously
hami manuhor sipatu maruarna birong~we bought black shoes
hami manumpahi ina paiashon jabu~we help mom clean the house
hami mardongan saripe onom iboto~we have a family of six siblings
hami marsak alani maninggalhon hami~we are sad because it left us
hami martangiang di bangso hami~we pray for our nation
hami naeng marlaoan olo tuhan~we will travel, oh my god
hami nangkin manogot di son~we were here this morning
hami naung ra marjabu balatuk~we want to get married
hami ni silinduat hata jolma~People say we are twins
hami saripe maringanan tading i~Our family lives in
hami tongos diri saleleng marsiulaon~we entrust ourselves while on duty
hamima na jala anggim dion~We are your little brothers here
hamlet mi na nantuari dia~Who was your boyfriend yesterday?
hamsar aha pe pambahenan sa~smoothly whatever the business
hamu andorang aha di lapo~what are you doing in the shop?
hamu boi paturehon na sega~you can fix what's broken
hamu lao sadasa manang didongani~Do you want to be alone or accompanied?
hamu luhut rittik gait au~you are all crazy I joked
hamu ma na au haholongi~you are the one I love
hamu ma na tarsumurung holonghi~You are the special one my darling
hamu ma pedan denggan hu~you are my good friend
hamu ma tihus tarjago hu~you are my greatest enemy
hamu naeng manjumpanghon ambar tapian~you will find a bathing pool
hamu ndada barani marripe dua~you don't dare to have two wives
hamu ndada ihut tu kobun~you didn't go to the garden
hamu ndada pantun au tagil~you are rude I slash
hamu ndangna lomo dohot naniolina~Don't you like his wife?
hamu tuhorhon bunga bunga ondeng~You can just buy roses
hamuna adong ma sioloan hami~you are our role models
hamuna boi jou au ester~you can call me ester
hamuna dakdanak tanga modom an~you bastards, go to sleep
hamuna luhut panangga gait au~all of you dogs are my joke
hamuna mardua ndada isi karejona~you two have nothing to do
hamuna mardua pala tongon tau~you two are very compatible
hanataanna hasuharon sian hata ni~in fact it is the opposite of that word
handit jo ni jomuran mi~Pick up your clothesline first
hangoluan on songon galapang padati~This life is like a wagon wheel
hansit aruaru dohot hansit ulu~sore throat and headache
hansit aruaru saut losok mangan~sore throat so lazy to eat
hansit asi alai onma hanataanna~it hurts darling but this is the reality
hansit au rumpak masuk alogo~I'm sick and I'm down with a cold
hansit ditadinghon sirsir muse asi~it hurts to be left behind when you love me
hansit gonting alani pangkurna jempek~backache because the hoe is short
hansit gonting das tu butuha~back pain to the stomach
hansit loni pardalanan ngolu on~this life's journey hurts
hansit na hudalani saleleng on~the pain I've been living with all this time
hansit pat di tombis kareta~foot pain from being hit by a train
hansit roha i songgak ibana~hurt at him
hansit roha mamikkiri hepeng on~it hurts to think about this money
hansit roha on mambege anggulimanna~It hurt my heart to hear his words
hansit tanggurunghi dohot mohop daginghu~my back hurts and my body heat
hansit ulu marpikkir ulaon on~I have a headache thinking about this job
hansit ulu pala batak sa~his Batak nutmeg headache
hansur naung aropan talu martaru~hope is destroyed, lost bet
hansur nunga borngin minggu do~Saturday night was ruined
hansur pardonganon alani holong mi~friendships are destroyed because of your love
hape horbo naung pala diolopi~apparently the buffalo is highly approved
hape paniroi di sabolahu mamparateatehon~apparently the supervisor beside me noticed
haporseaonhu porhot songon lombulombu tuhan~My faith is firm as God's shield
harbangan sikkola gari nari dihunsi~the school gate was still locked
harentaon eol daging huhut marende~cohesiveness of body movements while singing
haroroan iboto tu jabu hami~your arrival to our house
haroroanhu ndada di dophon isi~My presence is not considered there
harorona dirina manjeleng roha hu~His presence turned my heart away
harotas harangon hu nunga gok~My paper is full
harotas na hosom saut lemes~Dull paper becomes smooth
haru masuk tu uduran kalekale~please join the ranks of friends
hasabamon adong ma hunsi lopok~patience is the main key
hasangapon marhalado di jabu tuhan~the honor of serving in the house of God
hasea angkang parompuan ramot pakansi~success, sister, happy holidays
hasian lojado anggo loja maradi~Honey, if you're tired, take a break
hasian unang lupa sarapan manogot~darling, don't forget to have breakfast
hasiholan na ndang ebat ro~longing that never comes
hasintongon une dohot uhum patik~righteousness according to the law
hasiputon na isi di onan~busyness in the market
hasomalon meam rampak jolma batak~the habit of playing with Batak people
hata batak ni barat ima~That's all the Batak latitudes say
hata batakna ou annon tusan~In Batak language, I'll go there later
hata hata au aning haroroanmu~Batak words, I am waiting for your arrival
hata hata ho pala naboritan~your words are very hurtful
hata hata longo sagang sadasa~lonely words alone
hata hata sa pala manghurtik~his words were very touching
hata hita ndang mamorluhon hita~we say we don't need us
hata inonghu au suman sasahalak~my mother said, I look like someone
hata jolma ndada denggan rohami~people say you are not kind
hata mi saut pande parkir~You said you were a parking attendant
hata na sai manghutur diringku~words that really shook me
hata panjaloon sian katua hita~opening remarks from our chairman
hata panudu jolma sang ro~said the guide who arrived,
hata parbagasan unang boan son~Inland language, don't bring it here
hata tuhan manggonopi bangko hasomalon~God's word fulfills customs
hatahata ampa bagas manjonok modom~wise words before bed
hatami tonggi di bibir ondeng~your words are sweet on the lips
hatiha leleng dohot nari ringkot~long paced and still funny
hatiha ni silang adongma haleaon~at that time the cross was a shame
hatoban pangido haehe sian ho~I ask for your consideration
hatop diririt asa maderder au~Quickly choose so that it melts for me
hatop hian hamubaon ho asi~You change so quickly, darling
hatop ho lapati jo ni~Hurry up and interpret that first
hatop hot ripe ma ho~hurry up and get married
hatop hu topari annon ho~I'll slap you quickly later
hatop ma ho inum ubat~Hurry up and take your medicine
hatop ma malum holong hu~Get well soon my love
hatop mangan butuhahi naung male~Hurry up and eat, my stomach is hungry
hatorangan mar nini mar nono~caption What the Great-Grandchildren are afraid of What the Great-Grandchildren are afraid of
hatuaon mamboan las ni roha~good luck brings joy
hau balga ni lomak sahali~the big tree was very dense
hau rugun mambahen aoangaoang lamo~Shady trees make the air cool
haulion na isi di gareja~the beauty of the church
hauma ni adong ma hagabeonna~the rice fields were his wealth
hea ambolong sangga nari marjuang~was wasted while still fighting
hea i topar diadui au~I was punched there once
hea saor musem ho olo~Have you ever socialized too?
hea suba tukkang muruk muruk~I tried it, the mechanic got angry
helhul loni ma bona sa~It's really a hassle
hepeng dohar pangimbung pe sombu~Money can satisfy your desires
hepeng ise on tarampe marsineangan~Whose money is this lying around carelessly?
hepeng na pature nagara nuaeng~money rules the country now
hepeng pature parsintaan dohot marmasarakat~money governs love and society
hepeng pature parsintaan dohot sosial~money rules romance and society
hepeng sa ndang dope maderder~the money hasn't been disbursed yet
hepeng sian inonghu nari godang~I still have a lot of money from my mother
hepenghi naung suda sigaret suda~I've run out of cigarette money
hepengmu marsogotma olo au tongos~I'll send your money tomorrow
hepengmu naung tu himpu sadia~How much money have you collected?
hera so marsikkola do ho~It's like you didn't go to school
herbang ampe di emper jabu~lay out a mat on the terrace of the house
hian ho ajari anggi ni~the rules you teach your little brother
himpu himpu rampak pedan pedan~get together with friends
himpu himpu rap pedan pedan~get together with friends
hinorhon ni asi dohot giling~caused by the love and grinding
hipas daging dohot pamatang ta~healthy body and our bodies
hipas dohot ganjang umur tongtong~stay healthy and live long
hipas dohot sonangma dirim tongtong~be healthy and happy always
hipas dohot sonangma ho tongtong~be healthy and happy always
hipas hipas hami di poso~healthy healthy us early
hipas lam habar lam beha~Your health is getting better, how are you?
hipas tongtong bagak ho tarsumurung~always healthy and beautiful, you are special.
hipas tongtong damang dainang hu~always healthy, my father and mother
hipas torus hitado olo angkang~Keep us healthy, brother
hira laho meam marsogot da~I think I'll play tomorrow, right?
hirana mandohar ulaon na tama~May you get a decent job
hirana tuhan jesus tongtong mamasumasu~May the Lord Jesus always bless
hirana tuhan mamasumasu tondong targora~May God bless the family.
hisap au unang digaori olat~My wishes are not to be disturbed
hita bolahon i meja hiltung~we solve it at the round table
hita borngin na gok sir~we had a passionate night
hita buat jolma ni marpikkir~we make the person think
hita di painding angkup holang~we are separated by distance
hita dos parungkil mangeaki hepeng~we are like fighters chasing money
hita gonti tu ende asing~we change to another song
hita holan ma nanaeng bangke~we are just potential corpses
hita holan mamborontak demi hatigoran~we only rebel for justice
hita ingkon hahomion tu ibana~we have to learn from him
hita ingkon manggomgomi luhut bahasa~we must master all languages
hita ingkon ringgas paiashon daging~we must be diligent in cleaning our bodies
hita jolma batak tahan balbal~We Batak people are resilient
hita juju pasaut denggan ondeng~we will direct it to be good
hita lobi malo sian ibana~we are smarter than him
hita mamorluhon tingki di marsonang~we need time to relax
hita marhamlet jolma na arihon~we are dating people who have
hita naeng mangapuli hamuna luhut~we will entertain you all
hita naeng ramot portibi haholomon~we will be safe in the afterlife
hita nari i bagas parporangan~we are still at war
hita ndada boi saut nata~we can't be real
hita on iboto dongan tubu~we are blood brothers
hita oroan di bulan nopember~we got engaged in November
hita paima mara on marujung~we wait for this disaster to end
hita pajumpang jo annon olo~Let's meet later, okay?
hita porlu manggonti tahi hita~we need to change our plans
hita rampak rampak donganna pa~we're friends, right?
hita rimba borua sada on~let's work on this girl
hita songon dang dophon ibana~we don't think about him
hita sundati ondeng parbagason on~Let's just cancel this wedding
hita tanggo paraloan annon borngin~we'll see the match tonight
hita todo pa ise dirim~Let's show you who you are
hita tontuhon ise na saut~we decide who will be
hita uhal na asing ondeng~We discuss something else
ho adong dope harbue dang~do you still have rice?
ho adong ma darapati hu~you are my dove
ho adong ma jabu hangoluonhu~you are the home of my life
ho adong ma ratu ulihu~you are my beautiful queen
ho adong ma sang ulubalang~you are the hero.
ho adongma pangisi roha hu~you are the filler of my heart
ho ajari dongan on margait~You teach this friend to be funny
ho anggo dipaboa unang mangalo~If you are told, don't fight
ho antong sa leleng loni~it's been a long time for you too
ho au modom di jabuhu~you, me, sleep in my house
ho baea baea lagak mala~you are a handsome, generous man
ho bagak tarsongon rumondang bulan~you are beautiful like the moon
ho balang ondeng rampak hamletmu~Just be loyal to your boyfriend
ho bangso aha batak do~What ethnic group are you Batak?
ho batak lilu sian dia~where did you go astray?
ho bege sa guru patoranghon~you heard the teacher explain
ho bistok sahali angkang margait~You are very clever at being funny, brother
ho boi ma songon amangmu~you can be like your father
ho boi maniroi isi baritana~You can explain the contents of the news
ho boi pabalihon tu jolma~you can infect people
ho boruboru timbil bagak sabanua~you are the most beautiful woman in the world
ho boto do ni ondeng~that's all you know
ho di lulu pardijabu borua~you are looking for a wife
ho disan unang momar matana~Don't roll your eyes there
ho dohot au ndang tarpasidinghon~you and I are inseparable
ho dolidoli na parkarejo pir~you are a hardworking man
ho dophon bile au olo~you take me for granted, don't you?
ho dorsun laba au asi~you're a slob, lucky me darling
ho gaor on nunga borngin~you're noisy, it's late
ho giot umboto ise au~You want to know who I am.
ho holonghi tu son ma~you my darling, come here
ho hu tumbuk leleng leleng~I punched you for a long time
ho i denggan dohot ibana~you are good with him
ho ido bidadari ndang marhabong~you are a wingless angel
ho ido tudos jolma tihas~you are like a disabled person
ho isi pulsa lima ribu~You have five thousand credits
ho jama dohot patmu an~you hold it with your foot there
ho jama hunsi gudang ndada~do you have the key to the warehouse?
ho jo sa mamurai au~You used to curse at me
ho jolma na pala mansogohon~you are a very annoying person
ho lahona na leleng olo~You've been gone a long time, huh?
ho lao parjolo molo songoni~You go first then
ho lao sangga ho maninggalhon~you left when you left
ho laos lambok jolma sa~You're such a gentle person
ho laos ndada dohar nirasahon~you can't really feel it
ho ma asal hagogoon hu~you are the source of my strength
ho ma bunga kalas sa~you are the class flower
ho ma na tu son~you're the one who came here
ho male ra mangan didia~are you hungry, where do you want to eat?
ho mambahen au ndang margolle~you make me helpless
ho mambahen torsa olap aha~what are you making a story about?
ho mamorso au tongtong porsea~You lie I always believe it
ho mangalului aha di son~what are you looking for here
ho mangarimpu au isi hepeng~You think I have money
ho manoro godang ngolu manisia~you took many human lives
ho mansam mansam rampak au~you are like me
ho mardongan dohot ise pe~you are friends with anyone
ho marpahu riar sagi au~you are too wild for me
ho marpahu risi bagas marsinta~you are too rough in love
ho muse lulu masa pere~Are you looking for free mode?
ho muse marhua tu on~you're coming here
ho muse ndang marsipaidaan olo~You're fighting, aren't you?
ho musem naeng hami pusa~We will also torture you
ho na boi mangarti hahuranganhi~You can understand my shortcomings
ho na marpadan rampak au~you promised me
ho na saingkondo mangajari anakmi~You are the one who should teach your child
ho na so siborok boruboru~you are the silent female tadpole
ho naeng ida panghorhonna annon~you will see the consequences later
ho nangkok tu lante sadia~what floor did you go up to?
ho naung hea marbogas rosu~you've had sex before
ho naung manghobas jabu mi~You've cleaned your house
ho ndada andar saut jolma~You're not clearly a person
ho ndada andorang margait pa~You're not kidding, right?
ho ndada mampuna angkal do~you don't have any sense
ho ndada mangarti elekelek so~you don't understand please be quiet
ho ndada marangkal dohot rittik~you are senseless and crazy
ho ndada masihol hutam medan~Don't you miss your hometown Medan?
ho ndada mebat tujabu au~you don't visit my house
ho ndada tu sopo muse~You don't go to the hut anymore
ho ndang dope modom deang~You haven't slept yet, lady
ho ndang tarbereng alai jongir~you're invisible but scary
ho ni nanaeng amangamanghu olo~You are my future husband, right?
ho ni nari dakdanak mommonon~you're still a little kid
ho nunga boi medang portibi~you have been able to travel around the world
ho nunga manghabanghon mandera parporangon~you have raised the war flag
ho nunga panepnephon pardonganon hita~You have destroyed our friendship
ho on asalna sian dia~where do you come from?
ho on boasa bagak hian~why are you so beautiful?
ho ose luhut padan manismu~you broke all your sweet promises
ho pa iboto baea amangamanghu~you're my brother
ho pados au dohot ibana~You equate me with him
ho pahou udan on hinan~you stop this rain first
ho paila au dijolo halletmu~You embarrass me in front of your girlfriend
ho pala bagak tarsongon bidadari~you are very beautiful like an angel
ho pala jungkat mandapothon au~you are very mean to me
ho parbiar hian saut jolma~You're such a scared person
ho parjolo au annon tomu~You go first, I'll follow later
ho pikkir mura mangagohon panopano~You think it's easy to get rid of acne
ho ra au dibapbap dainang~do you want me to be beaten by mom?
ho ra boni korma sa~do you want the date palm seeds?
ho ra botik manang unte~do you want papaya or orange?
ho ra dohar upaupa musem~You want to get a gift too
ho ra manongos sada ndada~do you want to leave something?
ho ra markato ari on~you want to tell me today?
ho roa jala dang bistok~you are ugly and not smart
ho sadasa puna pisik sihabunian~You yourself have hidden secrets
ho saingkondo pandok jalo asi~you should say thank you
ho sala mangartihon sabiji panataon~You misinterpreted a statement
ho satorbang dohot pardijabu hu~You are the same age as my wife
ho sian dia asalna hutam~where do you come from in your village?
ho sihol rampak tano mi~do you miss your land?
ho sonang hu porsan ungkil~You are happy, I bear the suffering
ho talu aloalo rampak au~you lost to me
ho tangkas jogi mangadopi sasudena~You must be strong to face everything
ho tarhira pala ndada sunggul~You seem very oblivious
ho tarsongon ombun di manogot~you are like the dew in the morning
ho tonggi anggo pangke tahuluk~You're cute when you wear a peci
ho tongos poto tarus mi~You send a photo of your breasts
ho tongoshon pustaha panataon porang~you send a declaration of war
ho tongtong bagas ingoton hu~you are always in my memory
ho tongtong di rohahi salelengna~You are always in my heart forever
ho tudos bolis na jorbut~you're like a terrible devil
ho tudos punsu ni butuha~you're like an anus
ho tuhu rampak au ndada~are you serious about me?
ho tulus tingki nipi mi~You focus on your dream time
ho unang jekjek jekjek olo~Don't be naughty, okay?
ho unang jonoki ibana muse~Don't approach him again
ho unang lomo mangan basir~you don't like eating glass
hodar bahen mudar nangkok manogot~unclean makes the blood rise in the morning
hodar loni au rampak ibana~I'm unclean with him
hodar puna hamlet songon ibana~it's unclean to have a boyfriend like him
hoi baea baea unang mangande~You are a man, don't give up
hoji au janggola janggola ibana~I want to grab his hair
hojot malum annon dalan dalan~Get well soon and go for a walk
hojot mamburju tarhirim sa asi~Get better soon, I'm disappointed, dear
holan aning rodo hadengganon tuhan~just waiting for God's goodness to come,
holan asi angkang angkangna ndada~it's just a pity that his older brother doesn't
holan boi manetekhon aek mata~can only shed tears
holan dijaha dang di balos~just read, not replied
holan giot marsonang sian loja~just want to relax from tiredness
holan hamu ma na boto~only you know
holan hita mardua na antus~only the two of us understand
holan ho pahehe hu asi~You're the only one who cheers me up, darling
holan ho pupus ni tondihu~only you are my lover
holan ibana ma dalan huduru~he's the only way out
holan isi nasai hepeng hu~I only have that much money
holan ma sabiji sada hapateon~just one certainty
holan mandapothon ho hami mangalopi~only to you we ask
holan mandapothon ho hami marpangande~only to you we surrender
holan manisia na pasahathon hasintongon~only humans convey the truth
holan onma tangiang elekelek hami~this is our only prayer request
holan panurirang ate tuhan sunggul~just a prophet not a conscious god
holan roha na hu puna~the heart is all I have
holan sada huparsinta sian ho~I only ask one thing from you
holan soara bangkurung na tarbege~only the sound of crickets could be heard
holan tarhait dohot sada boruboru~only interested in one woman
holan tingki na boi mangarindanghon~only time will tell
holom sa hangoluonhu on dainang~My life is dark, Mom
holong duguldugul mi dok rumar~love your knees is bullshit
holong hita ramun jolma matua~Our love is forbidden by our parents
holong ho di panailian parjolo~your love at first sight
holong hu na ndada tarbalos~my unrequited love
holong mi tung papos hu~Your love really convinces me
holong na ndada boi marsada~love that cannot be united
holong na ndang boi tarhatahon~unspeakable love
holong ndang boi papulikhon hita~love can't separate us
holong ndang tartuhor dohot hepeng~love can't be bought with money
holong pe nituhor pangke hepeng~Love is also bought with money
holong sada borngin daga bagakna~one night love oh how beautiful
holong sopola panumpak jolma matua~love without parental blessing
holong sopola tarrahut sasara simor~love without being emotionally attached
holong ungkil sa ndang pudi~His suffering love has no end
holonghi mereng imbaru dungo modom~My darling swayed just waking up
holonghi modom na renges olo~My darling, sleep well
holongi jolma na patut parasian~love people who deserve to be loved
hombar jabu buat simor maos~The neighbors just make you emotional
hombar jabu lapatanna bagas saor~neighbor means in Batak slang
homitan molo bagas hadongan mangabuk~savings if in urgent circumstances
hopal tongtang dohot diudurhon angkup~fighter aircraft and led by
hophop nasida bagas asi basami~embrace them in your grace
horas aha habar masihol sahali~hello, how are you, miss you so much
horas aha habarmu boi marsitandaan~Hi how are you? can you get to know me?
horas amang paniroi aha habar~hello sir supervisor how are you?
horas borngin nipi uli mulia~good night noble beautiful dreams
horas donganhu tabe sian medan~Hello my friend. Greetings from Medan.
horbo pe ndang boi marbiasbias~Even the buffalo couldn't escape
horong na holan saut panolangi~a group that is just a backup
hot balang rampak au asi~stay loyal to me darling
hot bonar manatap tingki jolomi~keep looking forward to your future
hot bonar unang gotap derse~keep the spirit, don't give up
hot ijo pe bulung salak~Even the salak leaves remain green
hot ma martuani tu tuhan~keep thanking God
hot ma unang lupa inum~keep going, don't forget to drink
hot manghaholongimu aganan hansit roha~still love you even though your heart hurts
hot marsada aganan hita rangkak~stay united even though we are far apart
hot martuani beha pe parkarejoanna~remain grateful no matter what the job is
hot menak di be haadongon~stay calm in every situation
hot saep aganan saotik pinjil~stay patient even though it's a little different
hot tohom di tingki sungkalit~stay strong in difficult times
hot tonggi agan naniuhal hansur~still cute even though the quote is broken
hotor huhilala daging hu on~I feel my body shivering
hotuk do pintu roha sa~knock on the door of his heart
hu agan mari di indahan~I'm really going to have rice
hu arbas ho mate ho~I'll kill you, you're dead
hu arbas musem ma ho~I'll kill you too
hu arop ho ndada apala~I hope you don't do that
hu bondut musem ho annon~I'll swallow you too later
hu bura ho saut horbo~I curse you to become a buffalo
hu dapothon diri mi sonang~I find you happy
hu dapothon ho i sopo~I found you in the hut
hu dasip mulak roha mi~I will rebuild your heart
hu dege annon ho babi~I'll step on you pig
hu dege kambona rungkung ho~I'll step on your neck
hu dok tuani tu ho~I say thanks to you
hu dondoni te baba mi~I'll hit your mouth
hu holong ho sagok rohahi~I love you with all my heart
hu ingotdo punguan hami metmet~I remember our crowd was small
hu libas annon ho da~I'll hit you later, the instructions say, just to be sure
hu lontik goarmu di rohahi~I engrave your name in my heart
hu lotak ulu mi annon~I'll poke your head later
hu malua dohot tulus angkang~I let go sincerely, brother
hu mangan piapia sa ni~I ate his kidney
hu mardingat isi suping tonggi~I remember there was a sweet smile
hu ngaet sinta sinta hu~I achieved my dream
hu olohon aha pangidoanmu holong~I'll do whatever you ask, darling
hu pamate ho annon mate~I'll kill you and you'll die
hu pastap ho annon olo~I'll slap you later
hu pikkir di kode tuak~I think at the palm wine shop
hu pikkir naeng sae luhut~I thought it would all be finished
hu ponsahon ma babami annon~I'll break your mouth later
hu ponsahon tangkurak ho annon~I'll crack your skull later
hu sungguli ho sian hadadao~I wake you up from a distance
hu tagil pala ho annon~I'll cut your nutmeg later
hu tangihon ibana dohot sulingkit~I listened to him carefully
hu tembak ulu ho puntar~I'll shoot your head and it'll explode
hu tullang annon butuha mi~I'll stab your stomach
hu tunjang annon ulu mi~I'll kick your head
hu tunjang ma ho annon~I'll kick you later
huarop ho mandokhon na sabonarna~I hope you are telling the truth
huasi ho dohot asi tuhan~I love you with God's love
hubereng bohim tudos babi harangan~I look at your face like a wild boar
hubereng langit dohot au martangiang~I looked at the sky and I prayed
huboan martabak tu among simatua~I brought the martabak to my father-in-law
huboan pe ho bagas tangianghi~I take you in my prayers too
huboto sa alai saotik saotik~I know, but a little bit
hubuat ditingki ho ndada sunggul~I took it while you were unconscious
hudalani be abatabat na isi~I face every challenge that exists
hudia luhut on ai longo~where is it all so quiet?
hudia luluan pangisi pulsa saonari~where to look for credit chargers now
hudia ma au maribak muse~where should I look again?
hudia parau hita di marlaiar~where is our boat to sail?
huduru habobongot aoangaoang dohot jolma~the ingress and egress of air and people
huduru sian parsamean samansam tempo~getting out of the dorm was a kind of vacation
huhilala molo paniroi meret huduru~I guess, if the supervisor moves out
huhilala pe naung saut direktur~I think he's already a director
huhira bongak meammu hape porso~I thought you were great at playing, apparently you lied
huhut hita mangalehon santisanti hita~while we hand over our offerings
huhut ida borua rampak sibagur~while looking at the girl and the frog
hundul dion rampak ni natuatua~Sit here with the elders
hundul dohot mangatim panatapan jeges~sit and enjoy the nice view
hundulma hinan i karosi palaminan~Sit first on the aisle chair
hupamate musem jolma songon ho~I also kill people like you
huparsinta bagas tangiang dirim tuau~I ask in your prayers for me
huparsinta dirim bagas tangiang tuau~I ask you to pray for me
hupastap annon baba mi ni~I'll slap your mouth
hupastap musem bibir mi annon~I'll slap your lips too later
hupikkir belek belek hape bosi~I thought tin cans were iron
hupikkir ho manusia tarnata binatang~I thought you were a human but an animal
hupikkir ndang dope martapian ho~I think you haven't showered yet
huponggolhon holi sagu ho annon~I'll break your bone marrow later
hurang eret tu hambirang ni~just swipe to the left
hurang modom manang hurang balga~not getting enough sleep or not being big enough
hurang odot tu gitar sa~less pressure on the guitar
hurang sonang aha muse au~I'm not relaxed anymore
huroa sangga on ho diatas~maybe now you are on top
husuba di balang dohot ho~I try to be loyal to you
husuba mangarajumi olap dalan ngoluhu~I tried to reflect on my life path
husuba mangarajumi siahapon dalan ngoluhu~I tried to reflect on the fate of my life path
husuba pedan di bagas portibi~I try, friend, in the worldÃ‚
husungkun hepeng hamuna dia hape~I asked where your money was
huta hu inganan timbil menak~My village is the most comfortable place
huting dohot kelinsi marsiadu lua~cats and rabbits race
huting sa patialaon mangumma sipatu~the cat fainted smelling the shoes
hutingsa na au alus sadasa~a puzzle that I answered myself
i halado ai ndada boi~how come it can't be serviced?
i inganan hami gariada logo~It's actually dry where we are
i kota ido godang parbagasan~There are lots of housing in that city
i lingkang holiholi na retes~surrounded by a fragile frame
i mandogil ondeng bosol sa~Just massage the boil
i toru sihar rumondang bulan~under the moonlight
ia so timus ni damar~if you stay quiet, smoke the resin
ianakhon loak suman songon babi~stupid kids look like pigs
ias das tu urat uratna~clean down to the roots
ias ias jo ma au~I'll clean first
iba do na ndada mangarti~he admitted that he didn't understand
ibana ampin martandang rampak panggomgomi~he defends dating officials!
ibana boi ngolu ris ojak~he can live quite well
ibana busbus pasidinghon suping harungkut~he immediately avoided a frowning smile
ibana dabu nangkin tingki marlumba~he fell during the race
ibana ditiopi hupas nangkin arian~he was detained by the police this afternoon
ibana dohot anggi ibana tarnono~he and his sister fell asleep
ibana halakna laos tudos ni~he's a person like that
ibana hira au ndada mangarti~he thought I didn't understand
ibana holan manuturi diri ambung~he was just defending himself lightly
ibana ida dirina di sormin~he looked at himself in the mirror
ibana ma raja na bolon~he is a great king
ibana mamintor marlojong tu jabu~he immediately ran home
ibana mamupusi hepeng sian tanganhu~he snatched the money from my hand
ibana mangalithon tujung di rupana~she wore a veil over her face
ibana mangaraphon halongangan ni ro~he expected the miracle to come
ibana mangebati godang inganan edang~he visited many tourist attractions
ibana mate tanom di medan~he died in the grave in the field
ibana musem mangunjun mangambalhon pat~he also tried swinging his legs
ibana ndada i dongani naniolina~he was not accompanied by his wife
ibana ndada ra martapian parjolo~he didn't want to shower first
ibana paiashon mata bulu ni~he cleaned the bamboo's eyes
ibana pangkat sa nari marhamulian~he is still married
ibana pasidunghon turgasna apala hatop~he finished his task so quickly
ibana pe tang dohot hadirionna~he is also firm in his principles
ibana punahu unang lola ibana~he's mine don't bother him
iboto baea baea sian damang~father's brother
iboto dongan tubu rampak ho~brothers from the same clan as you
iboto tais mebat ansiat tamue~distant relatives visiting as guests
ida gari martenju jolma ni~look at that person fighting
ida ma manuk naung martahuak~Look, the cock is crowing
ida pamalosan sian au marsogot~see my revenge tomorrow
ido di mangiran babi diharangan~that's for hunting pigs in the forest
ido godang pe au inum~Yes, I drink a lot
ido marsabam dohot mangarop tohap~he is patient and hopes for reward
ido na dipanggoarhon sahalak hapala~that's what is called a leader
ihut muse ho manonggor bal~Come with me again to watch football
ijukna di pasaut sipadot ijuk~the fibers are made into broom fibers
ila ila au jumpa ibana~I'm embarrassed to meet him
ila naung hosom sahali bohihu~I'm embarrassed, my face is so dull
ima bingkasna ibana tudos ni~that's why he's like that
ima hami nangkin halalapan pasahathon~that we forgot to convey
ima na mambahen ahu aga~that's what makes me proud
ima pajongjonghon jabu sagi jahoba~namely building a house for Allah
imbar ae alai sada taratara~different flavors but one taste
imbar ugamo sa marga muse~different religions and clans
imbarna ulubalang di partahanan pardagingon~The difference is that Hulubalang is for physical defense
imbaru marhatai ondeng soarana damo~just talking, his voice is melodious
imbaru marsiajar saut anju ondeng~just learning so just understand
imbaru ondeng idaonhu ndada isi~I just saw there isn't one
imbaru sahali on au mangalompa~This is the first time I've cooked
ina aha habarmu ari on~mom how are you today.
ina andorang manapu alaman bolak~mother is sweeping the large yard
ina andorang nangkok kareta api~mother is on the train
ina guru maniruhon gulmiton suansuanan~The teacher gave an example of plant movements.
ina hu na hu haholongi~my mother who I love
ina mangalap anggi tu sikkola~mother picks up sister to school
ina mangalompa simarata i dapur~mother cooks vegetables in the kitchen
ina manuhor situhoron tu onan~mother goes shopping at the market
ina na aning posoposona sorang~mother waiting for her baby to be born
ina na burju tui anakna~good mother to her child
ina on tongtong manginggalhon ibana~This mother always pampered him
ina paradehon panganon di hami~mother prepared food for us
inang andora mangalompa di dapur~Dada's mother cooks in the kitchen
inang asi ho huhut inanginangmu~Mommy loves you and your wife
inang baju andorang paiashon jabu~auntie is cleaning the house
inang baju bagak angur lihi~beautiful, slim, fragrant aunt
inang baju silas ni roha~sugar Mama
inang hu markarejo gabe guru~My mother works as a teacher
inang na denggan tu dakdanakna~a good mother to her children
inangmi hu pale das mate~I beat your mother to death
inganan karejo di marpogo ngolu~workplace to survive
inganan parbonjoran lomo ni roha~favorite stopping place
inganan pargomgom jabu na timbo~a high protective place for the house
inganan parsatongkinan mardalan dohot hamsar~the funeral went smoothly
ingkon di radot pala momosmomos~must be guarded very closely
ingkon dibereng oma au pesta~must see mom I'm partying
ingkon dipaadong ria di runding~deliberations must be held to reach a consensus
ingkon do au laos lao~should I just go?
ingkon do ondol sahali pa~it should be really good, right?
ingkon hiras ma unang heu~You have to be enthusiastic, don't be lethargic
ingkon hu sonanghon hamuna annon~I have to make you happy later
ingkon i sambok mora horbo~must be whipped like a buffalo
ingkon ma pangke bangko batak~You have to use Batak customs
ingkon ma patu tu rajana~must submit to the king
ingkondo ho mate rap langkuponmu~you should die with your lover
ingot andorang inanginangmu sandang matua~remember when your wife was very pregnant
ingot anggo marrongkap tangkas dipajonok~Remember, if you have a soul mate, you will definitely be brought closer
ingot au tongtong bagas nipim~remember me always in your dreams
ingot ho alani ende on~remember you because of this song
intap hinorhon hageduhon hamagoan balok~to the point that due to insincerity you lose your boundaries
inum dali an sian bonana~drink milk there from the source
inum jo asa ndada rarak~Drink first so you don't get hoarse
inum kopi ngali rap tokke~drink cold coffee with the boss
inum na godang asa gombung~Drink a lot to get bloated
inum tuak rampak anduhur tulang~drinking palm wine with uncle's turtledove
ipe taho angkang patandahon ibana~can you introduce him?
ipe taho au manompang martapian~may I take a shower?
ipe taho hita mardingat mulak~may we remember again
ise ara raja ni dongan~who invited the king to be a friend?
ise boto hita nari saripe~who knows, we might still be a family
ise boto isi sisean angkup~Who knows, there might be additional students
ise do panurat tonel on~Who is the author of this play?
ise goar dohot margam aha~what is your name and surname?
ise goarna anak nasasada ni~what is the name of the only child?
ise hallet hu binoto ho~You know who my girlfriend is
ise ma au bahen ho~who am I to you?
ise ma na naeng hupuna~who will I have?
ise ma na pa hupuna~who do I have?
ise mananam naeng mamiltik abakna~Whoever plants will reap the results
ise mantan na nari diingot~Who is the ex you still remember?
ise na balga inang baju~who's fat, auntie?
ise na barani tombis hami~who dares to touch us?
ise na boi borhat rimpa~who can leave at once
ise na mambahen ahu sonang~who keeps me safe
ise na mamorluhon ua tona~Who needs it please order
ise na manggaji pande godung~who pays the builders?
ise na margait ho ise~who are you kidding?
ise na marjehe ni iboto~Who is the one who betrayed you?
ise na ra borhat rimpa~who wants to leave at once?
ise na ra dialap nasida~who wants to pick them up?
ise pandok masala hita tammat~who says our problems are over?
ise pe ni ndada ringkot~Whoever it is doesn't matter
ise sajo na ihut lao~anyone who goes
isepe na monang tongtong tingkos~Whoever wins remains sportsmanlike
isi aha ai hansur lala~what's going on? why is it so destroyed?
isi aha itohu maribak au~what's wrong my brother looking for me
isi api na torus margara~there is a fire that continues to burn
isi di sabola na sintong~is on the right track
isi dipudi pa ina mi~there's behind your mother
isi donganmu anture pangain panangga~your friend needs a dog adopter
isi hurang gula sada sak~there's one bag less sugar
isi inganan na torsok do~Is there a delicious place?
isi isi ondeng donganhu on~there is just this friend of mine
isi jolma tingkir i pudi~there's someone peeping in the back
isi leheng na pala jollung~there are very prominent characters
isi manisia pangalaho tudos sibolis~there are humans who act like devils
isi musem angkanghu sisolhot ima~there is also my biological brother, namely
isi na bahen jabu dialuhon~someone complained about the house
isi na ra diloplophon muse~is there anything else you want to include?
isi na ra manjakhon anak~someone wants to adopt a child
isi na sobu sian jo~there's something exciting from the past
isi ondeng jolma na late~there are just jealous people
isi ongkos lobi marsogot amang~is there more rent tomorrow, sir?
isi panompang lobi marsogot amang~are there more passengers tomorrow, sir?
isi puna hita diparhambol hita~there's ours our appreciated
isi roha na ingkon hujaga~I have a heart to guard
isi sa sipareon mi asi~You have ears, darling
isi saihur baruang na gomuk~there was a fat bear
isi sihol na ingkon ditiopi~there is a longing that must be endured
isi silas ni roha balga~there was great joy
isi silua isi mangan mangan~there are gifts, there are meals
isi sorang huria sending batak~there was born a Batak sending sect
isi sulusulu saotik sian katua~there is a little guidance from the chairman
isi tahi puna pardijabu sadia~Do you have any plans to have a wife?
isi turiturian na naung mampar~there is a legend that has been spread
isian rumar sihil huling sa~empty drum gives loud sound
itohu adong dope di huta~my brother is still in the village
itomu adong ma jambar dirim~your brother is a part of you
jabu bangko au jabu bolon~My traditional house is Rumah Gadang
jabu ibana di bariba an~his house is across there
jabuna peol alani piltik tolbak~the house was bent because it was hit by a landslide
jadi bulan on parujung ho~So this month is your last?
jadi ma babiat na buas~be a fierce tiger
jadi ma di marata marsogot~so be it for vegetables tomorrow
jadi ma tiur ditonga haholomon~be light in the midst of darkness
jadi ma tudos harohaon tuhan~be as God wills
jadima jat andorang burjum dijaishon~be evil when your good is taken for granted
jaga annon badak sa sonsang~Watch out or the powder will fade
jaga annon i jomba hamuna~Watch out, it'll be attacked by you
jaga annon isi babi harangan~Watch out for wild boars
jaga dongan risik bagas marpangalaho~Be careful, friend, be careful in your behavior
jaga ho pajumpang au tallik~Watch out, you'll find me stabbed
jaga isi na pangir muse~Watch out if someone is washing your hair again
jaga ma posoposo das sorang~look after the baby until birth
jaga ondeng anggo daong monang~just be careful if you don't win
jagar sa poda damang inangmi~Your mother and father's advice is beautiful
jago ho ndada masuk marsogot~great you're not coming in tomorrow
jago ma lamu lomo au~that's good... I like it more and more
jago ma sopola godang dok~be good without saying much
jaha ma dohot soara sihil~read it out loud
jaha ni ondeng ndada boi~I can't just read it
jahoba asal asi pardenggan basa~God is the source of grace
jahoba do siparmahan au lapatanna~jahowa do siparmahan au meaning
jahoba manang ho mangae sidangolonhi~Allah, do you feel my suffering.
jahoba na mangangkupi dohot mangamoti~God who accompanies and protects
jahoba ndada hea mangundang isepe~Allah never tests anyone
jahoba pamiara ngolu jolma porsea~God is the keeper of the lives of believers
jahoba sitolusada sitompa sasude sada~triune God, creator of all things
jahoba urupi painding dirihu dohotsa~Allah please separate me from him
jala bilolangon au dijou holong~became nervous I was called darling,
jala molo boi nian antar~and if possible, take delivery
jalang au panuturi luhut ugamo~free. I am the defender of all religions
jalang tanda di hita sude~Greetings to all of us
jalo asi angguliman dohot tangiangni~thank you for your words and prayers
jalo asi angkang baea amangamanghu~Thank you my older brother
jalo asi angkang ginjang rohana~Thank you brother for your attention
jalo asi angkanghi na bagak~Thank you my beautiful sister
jalo asi di karejo pirdo~thanks for the hard work
jalo asi di luhut siingotonna~thank you for all the memories
jalo asi di surirang sa~Thank you for the information
jalo asi elekelek songkongan tangiangni~Thank you for your prayer support
jalo asi ginjang apoapo ina~Thank you for your encouragement mom.
jalo asi ginjang panangkasion hamu~thank you for your explanation
jalo asi ginjang surirang sa~Thank you for the information
jalo asi ginjang tumpak ama~thank you for your help sir
jalo asi godang di manukna~thank you very much for the chicken
jalo asi godang ginjang hadengganonsa~thank you very much for your kindness
jalo asi godang ginjang pangalehonna~thank you very much for the gift
jalo asi iboto na marutokutok~Thank you wise brother
jalo asi iboto naung mangalumbahon~Thank you brother for reminding me
jalo asi mulak ginjang anggulimanna~thank you again for your words
jalo asi naung pabalgahon hu~Thank you for raising me
jalo asi tuhan ginjang tumpalmu~thank God for your grace
jalo asi tuhan nunga marmudumudu~thank God for guiding
jalo ma pinsangpinsang dohot soso~accept rebuke and advice
jama gonting angkang jogi jogi~hold your waist tightly
jambar bibir bahulbahul marrupa tingko~The rim of the basket is round
jambulan mata pardompahan igung baba~hair, eyes, forehead, nose, mouth
jarum pungkul patuduhon nomor dua~The clock hand shows the number two
jeges andar ingot ambar rittik~beautiful clearly remember the crazy pool
jeges dongan parmeaman mi uduti~good friend, keep up your game
jeges hian hamuna boruboru bagak~very nice you beautiful women
jeges muse soara amang hu~My father's voice is also good
jeges sa di daging hita~it's good for our body
jeges sahali tolor mekap ho~your decorated eggs are very nice
jekjek hian naung balga hape~Very naughty, even though he's already big
jesus bona parhorasan na tong~Jesus is the source of eternal salvation
jesus kristus sang pande ramot~Jesus Christ the Savior
jesus sipargogo hita bagas toba~Jesus is our helper in Toba.
jesus uluhon ma hami salelengna~Jesus, lead us forever
jobung di asar omo omo~trapped in a cobweb
jogi loni urat hau ni~the roots of the tree are strong
jojak ni naung gumpal nuaeng~the trail was frozen now.
jolma batak lambok roha sa~Batak people are soft-hearted
jolma batak marmudar jaua ho~You Batak people with Javanese blood
jolma batak naeng padalanhon paraloan~Batak people will put up resistance
jolma galung aili sa on~this wild boar eater
jolma hita ndada hea rujiruji~Our people never calculate
jolma jaua meam tu hampung~Javanese people play in the village
jolma marhatai di ponggol torus~people keep talking and get cut off
jolma medan puna lapatan tarpinjil~Medan people have their own meaning
jolma na denggan mandamosi au~good people accompany me
jolma na maname naeng mamiltik~the one who plants will reap
jolma na marhepeng na marhuaso~powerful people with money
jolma na marpos ni roha~hopeful person.
jolma na tarsor ho bapbap~the person you almost beat
jolma na timbil hu longang~the person I am most amazed by
jolma na tongtong holan marungutungut~people who always just grumble
jolma oto na mangangku malo~stupid people who claim to be smart
jolma purba musem iboto hita~Eastern people are also our brothers
jongir hape bohihu hamuna ida~You see my face is scary?
jongkas hamu jongkas muse au~You're cunning and I'm cunning again
jorbut pala boruboru sada on~This woman is very sadistic
jorbut sahali tudos ina panoroni~very sadistic like a stepmother
joro parbadia jahoba mabola dua~God's temple was split in two
jotjot di parade di sangga~often served at times
juit hian angkang huting ni~That cat is really mischievous
jujung timbo arga diri batak~uphold Batak self-esteem
jullong parbornginan olo inang baju~the accommodation flooded, auntie
julu binanga asal na tio~upstream of a clear source river
jumolo bagas manumpa dohot pamasahon~at the forefront in forming and realizing
jumpangan rampak mas ulan bunga~met with mas budi rose
justeru alani au hea mandalani~precisely because I have experienced it
kalapa na ndang dope sibuksibuk~unripe coconut
kambona eme dungkon sun digotil~rice stalks after they are ready to be harvested
kambona somalna di mambahen papan~stems are usually used to make boards
karejo jo punguon di tempo~work first, save for vacation
karejo ndada hea malo ho~you're never good at work
karejo sonang molo nunga borngin~Relaxing work when it's late at night
kareta angin ulan uarna balau~Budi's bicycle is blue
kareta au sega beha pauli~My motorbike is broken, how can I fix it?
katua aha na isi hatuaon~what chairman is there chairman
kopi birong ndada pangke gula~Black coffee doesn't use sugar
koran nnunga ro beta dijaha~The newspaper has arrived, let's read it
kota on lambang sopola ho~This city is empty without you
kota on longo sopola ho~The city is lonely without you
laba ma ate ho amangamanghu~Luckily you're not my husband
lae molo boi, giling hamu~Lae if possible, grind you guys
lae saor goarna ni amang~That's a slang name for my brother-in-law, sir
lagak bongak jogi jogi botang~handsome, handsome, strong, tough, dashing,
lagak sahali dongan hu on~My friend is very handsome
lagu tabo do i ito~that's a nice song, auntie
lam bagak dungkon saut panggadis~even more beautiful after becoming a seller
lam di odot lam jogi~the more you press it, the stronger it gets
lam dipagogo tuhan la ibana~the more God strengthens him
lam gabe bintang na pasihar~increasingly becoming a shining star
lam godang pasupasu sian tuhan~more blessings from God
lam leleng lam sagang au~The longer it goes on, the quieter I become
lam marisi eme lam manunduk~The more rice it contains, the more it bends
lambok hian tudos lante masojit~really cool like the floor of a mosque
lambok marpangalaho dohot pantun manghatai~gentle behavior and polite speech
lambung sampulu minut pasombuhon horong~about ten minutes let the group
lamu bagak asi di tading~the more beautiful it is, love to stay
lamu dasip gabe anak tuhan~increasingly becoming a child of God
lamu gomuk ondeng ho nuaeng~you're just getting fatter now
lamu hasea ondeng ho tondong~the more successful you are, my friend
lamu jorbut hangoluon nuaeng on~life is getting scarier now
langgatan tuhan managam hita mardua~God's altar awaits us both
langit puna halibutongan di diensenghon~the sky has a rainbow to be proud of
langka togap tongtong mamboan apangapang~Firm steps, always carrying pride
langkup hu ponsahon piapia ho~I cheated and broke your kidney
langsung mulak unang tenggen jo~Go home straight away, don't get drunk
lante bilut martapian ni landit~the bathroom floor was slippery
lao dalan dalan manuhor balanjo~go shopping
lao ho tuhor siinumon jo~Go buy a drink first
lao hudia hita tempo on~where are we going this holiday
lao mardalani dang adong hepeng~I want to go on a trip, I don't have any money
lao tu onan manuhor mangga~went to the fair to buy mangoes
laok aor masala hagompison on~this mix of health problems
laoma anak jolma pogos au~go away, my poor man's son
laos di hanataanna tudos ni~that's actually how it is
laos ho repot hian ianakhon~you are really busy, bro
laos ibana mangalopi tu inana~then he begged his mother
laos maniroi antong rohana di~then also explained his desire to
laos ndada boi dialo holi~bones cannot be resisted
laos ndada tabo tumaon sihol~it's not nice to hold back longing
laos pangido au tarutung sa~might as well ask me for the durian
laos parade dohot sun digadis~then serve and ready to sell
laos pia roha manghorhon biasbias~Indeed, envy gives rise to hatred
laos ra i mansam motorna~I also want to vary my car
laoshon mangan ari nunga borngin~please eat, it's already evening
lapatan hata juada rom ondok~the meaning of the word juada roma rhythm
lapatan hata si boru bangkol~The meaning of the word Boru is reluctant.
lapatan itak lolos itak malua~the meaning of the language itak escapes itak escapes
lapatan punguan ni hatahata aha~what does the dictionary mean?
lapatan tailihon marparbue do lojami~The meaning of the lyrics is fruitful, are you tired?
lapatan titus bagas saor medan~Meaning of Titus in Medan slang
lapatan titus bagas saor medan~The meaning of Titus in blending in the city of Medan
lapatanan sian batak tu indonesia~translation from Batak language to Indonesian
lapati dohot denggan dohot sintong~interpret it well and correctly
las ni roha na marudut~continued happiness
las ni roha na sasintongna~true happiness
las roha di lambung tuhan~happy with God
las roha mampuna anak sapasang~happy to have a pair of children
las roha mangan pisang robus~enjoy eating boiled bananas
las roha tanggo jolma pidom~it's nice to see people wretched
lau seat obuk didia ho~where do you want to get your hair cut?
lean sulusulu au ingkon beha~give me instructions on how to do it
lehon pardijabu mi di sajom~give your wife an hour
lehonma ibana angguliman ramot marsogot~congratulate him tomorrow
lehonma ngolum saguman di tuhan~Surrender your life completely to God
lele ma raksa satimbo timbona~pursue knowledge as high as possible
leleng hian au di ranto~I've been abroad for a long time
leleng leleng au saut bojok~I was confused for a long time
leleng ndang martarombo bahasa batak~I haven't spoken Batak for a long time
leleng ondeng ho balos tona~It's been a while since you answered the message
leleng sa hupaima hatigoran ho~I've been waiting for your honesty for a long time
leleng sahali au naung serep~I've been under it for a long time
leleng sahali hamuna tu pestana~It's been a long time since you guys went to the party
leleng sahali panggulmiton ho benda~your movements have been slow for a long time
leleng sahali sadihari ma saedo~It's been a long time, when will it be finished?
lelengna naung ndada himpu muse~we haven't seen each other for a long time
lete ibana au paima gokhonna~chase him, I'm waiting for his invitation
lilin naung di imbus ibana~He had blown out the candle
lintun ndada isi mardenggan hata~leaving without saying goodbye
loakon luhut manisia dison lae~stupidity of all humans here brother-in-law
loas au umboto goar ho~May I know your name?
loas martandang dohot jolma batak~Is it permissible to date Batak people?
lobi denggan didokhon martimbanghon so~it's better to talk than to keep quiet
lobi denggan mangan dengke assim~it's better to eat salted fish
lobi denggan mataniari martimbanghon botari~better sun than dusk
lobi denggan mundur martimbanghon tarsahiti~it's better to back off than get hurt
lobi denggan tipul martimbanghon peol~better broken, than bent.
lobi hansit muse tumaon sihol~it hurts even more to hold back the longing
lobi ijo musem bulung antirha~Cassava leaves are greener too
lobi jeges pandapot sada jolma~one person's opinion is better
lobi posa muse ho on~You're even worse
lobi posa sian manisia oto~worse than stupid humans
lobi tiur ditudoshon ari marsogot~brighter than tomorrow
lobina au ingkon lobi sonang~the rest I should be happier
loja au dibahen dohot ibana~I'm tired of being made by him
loja au dohot tingki on~I'm tired of this situation
loja au husan alai digabusi~I'm tired of going there but being lied to
loja au mangalului ho torus~I'm tired of looking for you all the time
loja dirim mangan ma muse~are you tired? eat again
loja dohot tingki saonari on~tired of the current situation
loja hian mandalanhon ngolu on~tired of living this life
loja molo dang adong hepeng~tired if there is no money
loja na ndada mandapothon omo~tired of not getting results
loja nnunga dohot portibi parsintaan~I'm tired of the world of love
loja sa pamberengan ari on~I'm tired of seeing today
lojana gabe boru boru on~I'm tired of being this woman
lok aha nimmu ondeng bodat~whatever you say monkey
lok ho au pe loja~It's up to you, I'm tired too
lok ho sajoma au mirdong~It's up to you, I'm dizzy
lok ma beha burjuna ondeng~it's up to you how good it is
lok ma na ringkot holong~whatever, what's important darling
lok pantas mi sajoma bodat~It's up to you, monkey
lokma au dabu di parengkelhon~let me fall and be laughed at
lokma hudalani das sagogo roha~let me do it to the best of my heart
lokma naeng hujalo dohot denggan~I will accept it well
lokma nasida hamat hu roa~let them think I'm ugly
lokma targorga goarmu i rohahi~let your name be engraved in my heart
lokmu ma loja hian au~It's up to you, I'm tired
loloan na andar di mandohoti~audience present to follow
lombar alusan maribak manang guting~the answer sheet is torn or dirty
lomo mangan panganon na marhua~likes to eat soupy food
lomom asal ho las roha~you like it, as long as you're happy
lomona holan manganturei ardoan jolma~he likes just taking care of people's business
lompalompa ina hu timbil tabo~My mother's cooking is the best
lomuk tudos sa pidong sa~tame like a bird
longo hian ndada isi pandapotan~very quiet, no income
loni on au tar lumbang~This time I'm a bit relieved
losok au pauli nunga borngin~I'm too lazy to make it late at night
luhut di son nari marhosa~everyone here is still breathing
luhut dipaolooloi mate ojak ma~everyone obeyed and died standing
luhut hata i pollung, bada~all words are denied
luhut holan ma tongosan tuhan~everything is just a gift from God
luhut hu andehon tu tuhan~I leave everything to God
luhut ido diparade jolma huta~all of that is provided by people. village
luhut manalahon au tondong sa~everyone blames me on his family
luhut marga marsada saut sada~all clans, combined into one
luhut marmuara di punsa pikkir~it all comes down to mindset
luhut na huulahon ndang diparhambol~everything I do is not appreciated
luhut na mangolap naeng mate~all those who oppose will die
luhut na manjadi ate sitoha~everything that happens is not a coincidence
luhut naeng tarbalos ida ondeng~everything will be answered just see
luhut naung banje tading nangaetan~everything is done, just tired
luhut ni isi dalan tongani~there is a middle way for everything
luhut pangidoan na tongtong dipaolooloi~all requests are always complied with
luhut ragam haporluon pungu ture~all types of complete needs are available
lulu hepeng jo bahen gararan~find money first for installments
lulu hodok di botari ari~look for sweat in the afternoon
lulu na muap hepeng ondeng~Just look for things that smell like money
lulu olle mi dohot totar~Find your talent and develop it
lulu rupia di pulo jolma~Look for rupiah on Orang Island
lumpat di ambar dengke ondeng~just jump in the fish pond
lungun dibondut sadasa oma tuk~It's sad to be swallowed alone, Ma's tired
lungun mida amangamang mangangguk boritan~sad to see my husband screaming in pain
lungun sa mandalani ngolu on~It's sad to live this life
lungunmu annon manesahon bohi ulimu~Your sadness will erase your beautiful face
lupahon ibana na hea tuli~forget he ever stopped by
lupahon na ndada porlu diingot~forget what you don't need to remember
ma lasak do andaliman on~I can't keep quiet, is this kind of wild fruit growing on the mainland of Toba, North Sumatra?
ma si duda sabung na~That's what the person who was crushing the gunpowder said
maap ma molo songoni da~sorry if that's the case
maaphon au ate anak jaua~sorry, I'm not Javanese
maaphon au na naung manaritahon~I'm sorry I've disappointed you
maaphon au tongor jadual hu~Forgive me. my schedule is busy
maaphon damang naung manaritahon hamuna~I'm sorry father for disappointing you
maaphon hami ginjang hasalaan hami~forgive us for our mistakes
maaphon nandigan hu manghaholongi ho~I'm sorry if I love you
mabiar au ho pajolo lalu~I'm afraid you'll go first
maga balga tangihon andung huriam~Almighty, hear the wailing of your people
maga bosar tangihon angguk huriam~Almighty, listen to the cries of your people
magigi au jahana tudos anak~I was disgusted reading it like a child
mago au hobas hobas angkang~I'll take care of my loss, bro
mago pareso dohot parbogason on~lost control with this relationship
magohon luhut ingoton olap ibana~erase all memory of him
maka na dang hu bereng~that's why I didn't see it
makana unang patar so jago~So don't pretend to be great
malas au molo hatop ro~I'm too lazy to come quickly
malas hian molo hatop ro~I'm too lazy to come quickly
malim jahoba na maga timbo~priest of the most high God
malo do ho, bijak tahe~you are clever, wise yes
malo manghatai dang malo marpambahenan~good at talking, not good at doing
malua mara hita meam muse~After the outbreak, we'll play again
mamak do lobang panggul mi~Your ass is wide, toothless
mamalang jolma asing marpambahenan denggan~prevent others from doing good
mamasang bohi mutung laok lungun~put on a sullen face mixed with sadness
mambaen aek binanga sonap sonap~causing river water to overflow
mambahen au dohot ndada denggan~treated me badly
mambahen dos ni roha ala~make a deal that
mambahen habisukon dohot mangalap tuptup~make policies and take decisions
mambahen lobi denggan martimbanghon mangaduk~making is better than repairing
mambege dohot mangalus tangiang hita~hear and answer our prayers
mambereng lampu on mate mangolu~see this light turn off and on
mambereng na bagak jala manis~see the beautiful and sweet
mambur annon piapia ho hubahen~scattered later I will make your kidney
mamereng ho nunga di gandeng~I see you've been taken
mamerengi aha do ho naga~see if you are the legendary snake
mamikkirhon masala ndang isi sudana~thinking about endless problems
mamintor bandit bandit bandit rohahi~immediately snatched my heart
mamintor manortor anggo mambege musik~immediately dance when you hear music
mamintor mulak unang inum alkohol~Go straight home, don't drink alcohol
mamintor nangkok pinggolna anggo dipuji~His ears immediately perk up when he is praised
mamorsan pamarai na nari bonton~carry a heavy burden
mamuhul au tuhu ardo ni~making sure I'm serious about it
mamuhul dirina sonang saleleng parmeaman~make sure he is safe during the game
mamulha saharan na nunga binahenna~breaking down the dam he had created,
manaili hepeng ansiat tuhe pardonganon~view money as a benchmark for friendship
manaili jolma matua dohot iboto~visit parents and siblings
maname parhaseang tano na isi~plant using existing land
manampahi botohon di tiopan karosi~put your arms on the chair handle
manandahon borngin naeng busbus ro~indicating that night will soon arrive
manang bahasa batak au natingkos~Is my Batak language good?
manang bangko hasomalan jolma batak~what are the customs of the Batak people?
manang bangkona apala huhilala ndada~is that the nature of it? I do not think so
manang bibina adong dope tuan?~Is the duck still there, sir?
manang boi argana di orui~can the price be reduced?
manang burbur di ruar indonesia~or weathered outside Indonesia
manang ho anture ugasan on~do you need this thing?
manang ho dang pangke utokutok~don't you use your brain?
manang ho dipalao sian medan~were you thrown out of the field
manang ho jolma batak lipe~are you a fake hobo?
manang ho jolma batak tulen~Are you a native Batak person?
manang ho lomo mangan napuran~Do you like eating betel?
manang ho mananda jolma on~do you know this person?
manang ho manggadis barang on~do you sell this item
manang ho naung leleng mabalu~have you been widowed for a long time?
manang inang mi adong dope~Is your mother still around?
manang indahan nunga ro dongan~Has the rice arrived, friend?
manang luhut mardalan dohot denggan~is everything going well?
manang na mampuna gurat pomparan~or who has a lineage
manang naung bodarina on iboto~Is it evening already, bro?
manang on basabasa manang mara~is this a blessing or a disaster
manang saburjuna dohot na marmarga~is it better with a surname?
manang sian bariba ni laut~or from across the sea
manang tondongmu las roha manggombar~Does your family like to draw?
mananggo babi di huta jolma~slaughtering pigs in people's villages
manangianghon ulubalang sumurung ulubalang parsiajaran~Pray for heroes, especially educational heroes
manatahon hamardekaan dohot hadaulaton bangso~declared the nation's independence and sovereignty
mandabuhon bom tu dua kota~dropped bombs on two cities
mandabuhon pedan naeng diompashon tuhan~If you drop a friend, God will drop you
mandao sian punguan jolma godang~stay away from large groups of people
mandapothon na marhabot ni roha~have misfortune
mandasdas ugasan sian holang tais~move objects from a distance
mandatdati sikkolahu tu parguruan timbo~continue my studies to college
mandohoti soso barita nauli baoamu~follow your son's gospel advice
mandoit loni bou jambulan sa~the smell of her hair is strong
mandongani angkangna di tingki danakna~accompanied his older brother in his youth
manektek aek mata au mida~I shed tears when I saw it
manektek aek simalolonghi di ho~I shed tears for you
mangabas reapreap harambir i horisan~waving palm trees on the beach
mangaehon susa lungun parungkilon hasusaon~feel trouble, sadness, struggle, distress
mangaehon ungkil mandohoti tumpak manumpahi~feel, suffer, participate, help, assist
mangahap marsala au rampak mi~I feel guilty about you
mangahap ndada patut di diarihon~feel unworthy of belonging
mangahap timbil sintong dohot marhuaso~feel most righteous and powerful
mangahon ae sasara ro ro~brings a sudden feeling
mangahon naniomo dohot bongka denggan~bring profit and good things
mangalap dangka mahiang di hau~pick up a dry branch on a tree
mangalean dohot las ni roha~give with joy
mangalean ompan tu pinahan male~give bait to hungry animals
mangalehon angkup dohot mangaluluihon pangapoion~provide additional and find motivation
mangalintomhon tihus na mangadang mi~Eliminate the enemies that come your way
mangalojai daging daina ra tipul~tiring, my body feels like it's going to break
mangaluahon sihol na pande bagas~let go of deep longing
mangalumbahon nasida dohot hita musem~reminds them and us too
mangan arian dungkon manuhor situhoron~lunch after shopping
mangan indahan ho annon hansit~Eat your rice, you'll get sick
mangan jo angkang nang saotik~Eat first, even if it's a little
mangan ma hasehatonmu lobi ringkot~Eat and your health is more important
mangan ma ho hasianna jolma~Eat, you are someone's favorite
mangan manogot dohot marata siarum~breakfast with spinach
mangan rap alani rajuman bungkasan~eating together because of the fortune of moving
mangan rap ido mangohop pardonganon~Eating together warms brotherhood
mangan rujak rap ni parmossak~eating rujak with the warriors
manganjurhon di pasidinghon bongka on~suggest avoiding this
mangarade porsuk rap dohot jesus~willing to suffer together with Jesus
mangarahon di marbada hape ibana~apparently inviting him to fight
mangaramoti parsaoran holangholang huria maragamo~maintaining harmony between religious communities
mangaramoti parsaoran taru hombar jabu~maintain harmony between neighbors
mangarihon ateate na ndada tama~have feelings of unworthiness
mangasta ugamo mangasta jolma matua~insulting religion insulting parents
mangatim ngalina i manogot ari~enjoy the cold in the morning
mangehet ehet pedan au goarna~mocking my friend's name
manggalaki listirik dohot hagogoon sillam~ignite electricity with the power of lightning
mangganjang sian utara tu apotan~extends from north to south
manggarar gararan dohot manuhor balanjo~paying installments and shopping
manggarar gararan dohot tuhor panganon~pay installments and buy food
manggashon manompur manghomit martagi tumaon~decided to crash save collect hold back
manggerdek dirihu asa ndang bilolangon~, seducing myself not to be nervous
manggotil jagung di kobun jolma~harvest corn in people's gardens
manggotil ra dibebe ndang ra~pinching whether you want to pinch or not
manggulut hadaulaton di tano batak~seize sovereignty in Batak land
manghaholongimu tarsongon mamohul bara api~Loving you is like holding a burning ember
manghail dengke i aek litok~fishing in murky water
manghail di bagas aek litok~fishing in murky water
manghamham alaman sagi mara langgatan~covers the grounds for altar disasters
manghansiti padan humna ho manggabusi~break your promise, how dare you lie
manghasiholi ibana na nunga ndang~miss him who is gone
manghombar nandigan isi nian ondeng~Just come closer if you want
manghomit jo imbaru boi mangeahi~Save first before you can follow
manghorhon sasahalak impol sarupa hepeng~causes someone to be tempted by money
manghorisi ngalina borngin raphon au~walk through the cold night with me
manghorunghorunghon botohonna tu abara hu~put his arm around my shoulder
manghunti bahasa parsadaan bangso indonesia~upholding the unified language of the Indonesian nation
mangihut jesus dohot mamorsan silang~Follow Jesus and carry the cross
mangihut patik jahoba pareakhon tang~following God's law to perfection
mangiran tarutung di borngin ari~hunting durian at night
mangkaolho adong ma hamenakon hu~hugging you is my comfort
mangkorhon pinahan riar gabe ripur~causing wild animals to become extinct
mangohop daging i jolo api~warm yourself in front of the fire
mangoloi uhum mambahen parmeaman boho~obeying the rules makes the game fun
mangontang huta dohot huta jumonok~invite nearby areas and villages
mangopi huhut marsurasura na jeges~drinking coffee while imagining the beautiful
mangopi jo asa ndada mondok~drink coffee first so you don't feel sleepy
mangudurhon dungkon ibana musem ihut~took the lead after he also joined in
mangulahon aha anggi hu asi~what do you do, my dear sister?
mangulahon dohot gok alang alus~carry out with full responsibility
mangurupi sa mangurupi tahi otona~help him? help with his stupid plan
manisia giot mamupusi hamuliaon jahoba~humans want to rob God of his glory
manisia manaritahon alai tuhan ndada~humans disappoint but God doesn't
manisia na holan tongtong marungutungut~people who just always grumble
manisia na tongtong holan marungutungut~people who always just grumble
manisia ndang pantun idia utokmi~uncivilized human, where is your brain?
manisia sibolis martujung ho ni~that hooded devil man of yours
maniuk sandok sisik bohi au~caress all the skin on my face
maniuk tu sandok bohi au~caressing it all over my face
manjaha buku panogu hatomanon tondong~read the family devotional guide book
manjonok madekdek mata ni ari~before sunset
manompang poto ondeng jo olo~Just take a photo first, okay?
manontong ma raphon au dison~stay with me here
manortor i alaman didongani imana~dancing in the yard accompanied by him
manortor i alaman rap imana~dancing in the yard with him
mansam dia au pantas sa~how do I say it?
mansam mansam hu bapbap ho~the way I beat you
mansam pandapot mansam sara marroha~various comments, various ways of thinking
mansam raja alai tudos antuasu~like a king but like a wolf
mansam tongosan rumar sihil hulingna~like an empty barrel, it makes a loud sound
mansam tutu somalna godang torsa~That's right, usually there are lots of stories
mantat tu raja harangan ma~This will result in the king of the forest
manubuhon dohot pagogohon haporseaon hami~grow and strengthen our faith
manuhor balanjo torus godang hepeng~keep spending a lot of money
manuhor pisang ma jolo au~I'll buy a banana first
manuhor susu ni biang i~buy the dog's milk
manuk martahuak di manogot ari~the cock crows in the morning
manuk situak natonggi bahenan dainang~Mom's homemade honey chicken
manumpahi manumpa jabu balatuk hita~help shape our household
manundur ni boi saut nata~that possibility could be real
manurat di ginjang bulung mahiang~write on dry leaves
manurinurihon olap parbagason sahalak raja~tells about the wedding of a king
manutup pintu saleleng ni lelengna~closed the door forever
manuturi tingki jolo anak hami~planning our children's future
manuturi tingki jolo anak hita~planning our children's future
maol hian modom mata on~It's so hard to sleep with these eyes
maradi jo marsogot tongtang muse~rest first, fight again tomorrow
maradi ma asi di pangido~darling stop asking
maradi modom tokkin jo tondong~take a short nap first, friends
maradi tulang on nunga borngin~Uncle's rest is late
marapiapi mandopang rap anak hinomit~enthusiastic about fighting together with the people
marata siarum ni nari mohop~the spinach was still hot
marbagi ndada mangorui rajuman mi~Sharing does not reduce your sustenance
marbahasa indonesia ni lobi tardungdung~Speaking Indonesian is more affordable
marbinereng tu inganan pusok marminggu~attention to the central place of worship
marbingkas bitik au mangguruhon bahasa~based on my experience studying languages
marbogasma hita asa dohar ulos~Let's get married so we can get ulos
marbohi toras dohot parkarejo gogo~mature and hardworking
mardalan dohot sarahu sadasa do~I'm going my own way
mardalan sadasa sopola odong sipareakan~walking alone without any direction
mardalanma di ginjang todoan nipim~walk on your dream choice.
mardomu dohot jahoba bagas hamagoan~meeting God in loss
mardomu masihol dohot tondong hasian~miss you with your beloved family
mardongan dohot na matua matua~make friends with the old ones
mardongan saripe rap dohot ho~have a family with you
mardua hita mudumudu holong on~we both build this love
marekrek batin hita mamereng i~it hurts our hearts to see that
marekrek batin hita mamereng ni~it hurts our hearts to see the
marga aha ni panjaha baritana~What surname is the news reader?
margahu ndada isi di tardokhon~My surname is not mentioned
marganda balga pasupasu na didapot~the greater the blessings obtained
marguna ansiat ni pandaian ae~functions as a taste bud
marhapateon ondeng aha naung ris~Just committing is enough?
marhata na au marpasir pasir~he said I was mixed up
marhatai bahasa huta saotik ondeng~speak a little banjar language
marhilala ndada puna hamlet panangga~I feel like I don't have a dog boyfriend
marhilala saut punsa sa ho~I feel like I'm your model
marhuarar annon na ho dohar~you will get plenty later
marhuaso di bagas ngolu hami~reign in our lives
maribak pa baba pangalualu birubiru~tear the mouth of the sheep's whistle
maringanan tading di huta binanga~live in river areas
marisap jo unang karejo torus~smoke first, don't continue working
marjabu balatuk hata parhauma targora~married, said the farmer
marjuang alani tuhormu ndada saotik~fight, because your dowry is not small
markarejo i hauma bonda sadasa~working on his own farm
markassa hinan sarupa diri sadasa~first look in the mirror at yourself
markassa jo tagan mangasta jolma~look in the mirror first before insulting people
markassa ma tagan mandokhon jolma~look in the mirror before telling people
markobun di dia di huta~gardening where? in village?
marlambas andora jalo omo pamilian~tolerantly accept the election results
marlapatan uhum sa apala olo~That means that's the rule, right?
marlas ni roha dungkon siaginon~rejoicing after suffering
marlomo sinta tu tuhan jesus~rejoice in the Lord Jesus
marmeam bal di adaran toru~playing football in the lower field
marmeam huhut manjejerhon 4 musa~Play while sorting numbers
marminggu holan, tombal manghuphupi bangko~Worship only covers one's character
marminggu sipasingot hamamate tuhan jesus~commemoration of the death of the Lord Jesus
marmise dohot marjanggut ido tongam~having a mustache and beard is dignified
marmonsak sialap ingkau patinda tarida~Being tongue-in-cheek changes the facts
marmudumudu markarejo dohot hagogoon gok~guiding works in full force
marningot dainang mi ni asi~remembering your mother dearly
maroma sara nunga hu suba~I have tried thousands of ways
marpadanma di hot raphon au~promise to stay with me
marpadanma di saut na umuli~promise to be the best
marpadanma di tongtong raphon au~promise to always be with me
marpahu asi loni ho hutingkir~I love you too much when I look at you
marpahu godang abat ari on~too many obstacles today
marpahu godang leak panangga on~this dog has too much behavior
marpahu godang manoro ngolu manisia~taking too many human lives
marpahu godang uhum dohot pangidoan~too many rules and demands
marpahu mangatim dohot na didapot~really enjoy what you get
marpahu sihol dohot ho hasian~miss you too much darling
marpambahenan aha na porlu dibahen~do what needs to be done
marpambahenan denggan tu luhut jolma~do good to everyone
marpandoit torus ndada uas babami~insinuating that your mouth doesn't thirst
marpangkean gompis ma tu sikkola~dress neatly for school
marpira i aek na ias~lay eggs in clean water
marporang mangalo habengkukon bagas unjun~fight against cheating in exams
marsabarma on unjun sagi hu~be patient, this is a test for me
marsadi inum alkohol ni ma~stop drinking alcohol
marsadi mangeaki na ndada tangkas~stop chasing the uncertain
marsadi pa jo udan sa~the rain will stop first
marsalasa diruar asa badanmu hipas~sunbathing outside so that your body is healthy
marsi pagogohon di ari dibolus~strengthen each other for the day ahead
marsiajar dohot marpananginangian hata tuhan~study and listen to the word of God
marsiajar ma ho dohot hatigoran~Learn with honesty
marsiajar ma rampak na pande~Learn from an expert
marsiajar ma rampak na pande~learn from an expert
marsiajar mangantusi agan ndang saroha~learn to understand even if you don't agree
marsiajar mangetong antong dongan on~Learn to count too, friend
marsibahen lomo ni rohana mamillit~freedom of choice
marsipature abahan batak dohot adatna~preserving Batak culture and traditions
marsirang daong ma dalan umuli~separating is not the best way
marsirang gabe jalang marsada sada~parting to greet one another
marsogot anggo boi hu baritai~I'll let you know tomorrow if I can
marsogot asing loni au tuli~I'll stop by tomorrow next time
marsogot hami ro tu jabum~tomorrow we come to your house
marsogot hita lulu pidong anduhur~tomorrow we look for turtle doves
marsogot ingkon lobi hobas muse~I have to be more active tomorrow
marsogot karejo pir lete tembak~Tomorrow work hard to achieve the target
marsogot ma hita nonang olo~Let's talk tomorrow, okay?
marsogot manogot dungoi au olo~Wake me up tomorrow morning okay?
marsogot manogot ma hita marbarita~We'll talk tomorrow morning
marsogot paingot au muse olo~remind me again tomorrow, okay?
marsogot senen boaboa gogona huduru~Tomorrow Monday the results will be announced
marsogot tahan laga demi sinamot~tomorrow hold back your lust for the sake of dowry
marsogot tahan taratara demi sinamot~Tomorrow hold back your appetite for the sake of the dowry
marsogot tu adaran hita amang~Will we go to our field tomorrow, sir?
marsogot unang lupa tugas sikkola~Don't forget your schoolwork tomorrow
marsomba ganaganaan las ni roha~worship the idol of happiness
marsomba jahoba dohot sagok roha~worship Allah with all your heart
marsonang dohot anggi lae asi~having fun with dear sister-in-law
marsonang las roha ondeng jo~just have fun first
martagi utang di garar utang~collect debts to pay debts
martalipon dohot borua na umbagak~on the phone with the most beautiful girl
martaon hu mudumudu holong hita~I have built our love for years
martaon hu mudumudu holong on~I've built this love for years
martapian ambar lange anak nasabah~bathing in the customer's children's swimming pool
martapian asa ulina ndada sonsang~Take a shower so your beauty doesn't fade
martapian ma asa angur dagingna~Take a shower to smell good
martata dainang mi balga loni~Your mother laughed big
martata supingma nang ho ate~smile even if you're not
martimbanghon ho godang loni hatam~than you talk a lot
martimbanghon marhatai na ndada ndada~rather than talking nonsense
martopak sambola tangan marlapatan ma~clapping one hand means that
martoruk ma bagas be haadongon~be humble in every situation
martuani ginjang pardenggan basa tuhan~grateful for God's grace
martuani nari di lean hipas~grateful to still be healthy
martulang bagas asi jesus kristus~rest in the love of Jesus Christ
marudur bagas lomo olope bonos~together in joy and sorrow
marulaon hot ripe di parbornginan~wedding party at the hotel
marupahon sala sada tandi tano~is one of the characteristics of the land
marupahon tortor bangko timbil tarbarita~is the most famous traditional dance
marusaha ngot dohot pambahenan sadasa~try to get up on your own
masa alani margait hita marbadai~because of a joke we got into a fight
masi mungkap asa sada sahata~open up to each other to agree
masihol au mulak tu medan~I miss going back to Medan city
masihol ina di huta antaran~I miss my mother in my hometown
masuk undungundung muse bahen porang~enter the hut again to fight
mata hail disampathon huhut aning~the hook is thrown while waiting
mata hailna nunga digagat dengke~the hook had been eaten by a fish
mata ho ni ma momar~your eyes are wandering
mata mi tanggo simalolonghi matami~your eyes look at mine your eyes
mata ndang sadi usehon aekna~The water in my eyes never stops spilling
mata opat jambulan tudos arum~four eyes hair like spinach
mataniari tung pala mandoit loni~the sun is really very hot
mate angkal hu ho bahen~You made me die
mate hu mida loakon donganna~I died seeing his friend's stupidity
material godung ido holong hu~Building materials are my darling
mauli bulung rap pedan pedan~happy with friends
mauliate ma sehat sehat dope~thank you, still healthy and healthy
mauliate ma tu bandar i~thank you to the financier
mauliate nang marpogo sadao on~Thank you for surviving this far
mauliate naung ro bagas ngoluhu~thank you for coming into my life
mauliate nunga ro tu jabu~Thank you for coming home
meam aek di huta rambutan~playing in the water in Rambutan village
meam au ponggol pala hamu~I'll play and chop off your nutmeg
meam bola dang boto ho~playing football don't know you
meam meam ho dohot hangoluanhu~you play with my life
medan jolma marujung manang monding~Medan language: people who die or pass away
mekap pa bunga holong hu~decorate my love flower
meme au giot na on~Mom, I want this one
meme pangido hepeng bahen tuhor~Mom asked for money to buy
memori utokhu tudos ndang marguna~My brain's memory doesn't seem to function
menak paborgo roha na bangkin~calm refreshes a troubled heart
mene au marbahasa batak hatana~OK, I speak Batak
mengkel sonang ubat timbil tolap~Laughing happily is the most effective medicine
merung marniang loni tingki ni~skinny at that time
miak goreng au adong dope~I still have cooking oil
mida mi marrongkap dohot sa~seeing you side by side with him
mika unang tingkal ho olo~Micah, don't be a flirt
mingor loni di di san~it's noisy there
minum kopi dohot mangallang gorengan~drink coffee and eat fried foods
mirdong au ida pangalaho hamuna~I'm stressed when I see your behavior
mirdong au masala saut sursar~My dizziness has become a problem.
mirdong au ndada hona kopi~I'm dizzy from coffee
mirdong bene loja hansit ulu~dizzy tired tired dizzy
mirdong hepeng suda pardijabu lintun~worried about running out of money, wife ran away
mirdong ulu alani parbadaan politik~headaches due to political fights
mirip pukul dengan kepalan tangan~toothless cow
modom hita marsogot ra siat~We'll get enough sleep tomorrow
modom ho nunga borngin hambing~You're sleeping late, goat
modom jo au hasian hu~sleep first, my darling
modom jo da hasian hu~sleep first, my love
modom jolo dang adong muatan~sleep firstno load
modom nunga borngin karejona marsogot~I'm going to sleep tonight. The task is tomorrow
modom nunga hamuna nunga borngin~You've gone to sleep, it's already late
modom ondeng di ginjang podoman~just sleep on the bed
modom parjolo dang adong muatan~sleep first, no load
modom renges di ginjang aek~sleep soundly on the water.
modom tupa ardona nunga borngin~maybe sleep because it's already late
modomma annon au tomu ho~Go to sleep, I'll come after you
modomma hamuna on nunga borngin~go to sleep, it's late
modomma haru nunga borngin on~go to sleep especially tonight
modomma ho tagan i podomi~go to sleep before you sleep
modomma maradiphon roha dohot pikkiran~sleep. . rest your heart and mind
modomma simalolong dang loja rasam~Sleep with your eyes, don't feel tired
modomna muse dongan nunga borngin~Go back to sleep, friend, it's late
mohop musem ari borngin on~the weather is also hot tonight
mohopna roha susa i pangali~the heat of the heart is difficult to cool
molo adong anak ni raja~if there is a Batak man
molo adong dopena lao manumbang~if anyone still wants to donate
molo adong nang sala domino~if something goes wrong domino
molo adong nasalah mana naunang~if there is something wrong or not
molo annon ho tarhona balosanna~if later you get retaliated against
molo au boi marhusor tingki~if I could turn back time
molo au dijou naeng hualusi~if I am called I will answer
molo au dohot garapus mallumpat~if I carelessly jump
molo au sala urupi dianju~If I'm wrong please forgive
molo boi agak hatop lae~If I may, be a bit quicker, brother-in-law
molo dang hea hu angkat~if I never pick it up
molo dang natal saotik do~if not Christmas at least
molo dohar haporseaon unang diompashon~If you have trust, don't drop it
molo holan bolus santokin laoma~If it's just passing by temporarily, leave
molo hu ida marsillak bohim~if I see your sparkling face
molo isi tihus na patinda~if there is an enemy, in disguise
molo jonok au dege ho~If you get close, I'll step on you
molo jonok hu taruhon panganon~If it's close, I'll deliver food
molo jonok nunga hu ponggolhon~if it was close I would have broken it
molo jonok rampak au olo?~If you're close to me, would you like it?
molo jonok suda ma au~If it's close, I'll be finished
molo jonok tabo lehon rohana~If you're close, it's nice to give attention
molo loja lao tu pardompolan~If you're tired, go to a massage place
molo loja marlapatan ngolu dope~If you're tired, you're still alive
molo loja panurirang peakpeak di~if the prophet was tired he would lie down
molo mangan babami nomor sada~if you eat your mouth is number one
molo maridi aek las manogot~if you take a warm shower in the morning
molo marsogot sibuk do ito~if I'm busy tomorrow that's it
molo mulak karejo marbarita da~If you come home from work, let me know
molo naeng do putus pangidoanmu~if you want to terminate your request
molo naeng tutup pe sude~if you want to close everything
molo nasida tudos lagak undukhon~if they're like, handsome, right?
molo nga putus paboa da~If you've broken up, let me know
molo olo ho gabe kristen~if you want to become a Christian
molo padan ido ho tombom~if you break that promise
molo pardomuan ido ditahi lung~if the meeting was planned by the universe,
molo peakna di bariba an~if it's on the other side
molo sega hita las hon~If it's damaged, we'll weld it
molo sintong bolis pe dibondut~If it's true, even Satan is swallowed
molo so jago mamilit dongan~If you're quiet, it's great to get out of the way, friend
molo songoni dang porlu lao~then there's no need to go
molo songoni dohot ma au~then come with me
molo songoni haduan hita tahihon~Then we'll plan another time
molo songoni hita bolus son?~So shall we go this way?
molo songoni hita nari iboto~then we are still brothers
molo songoni iboto ma hita~then we are brothers
molo songoni lokma marsirang sajo~So let's just separate
molo songoni luhut alusan sude~then all the answers are correct
molo songoni ris ma nunga~then that's enough
molo songonikan agak tabo berengon~if it's like that, it's rather nice to look at
molo toho panghataion mu i~if what you say is true
molo toho paotootohon alu sajo~If it's really cheating, just report it
molo toho toho asi buktihon~If it's true, darling, prove it
mommon sa ndada paso sondot~His snot didn't stop
monding sa ibana pala marlapatan~His death means a lot
mondok loni mata hu on~My eyes are sleepy
monjap holom holom borngin hu~the darkness of my night is gone
mora arta alai pogos roha~rich in wealth but poor in heart
morana di san hurang hipas~it seems unhealthy there
motor busbus maninggalhon harbangan sikkola~The car immediately left the school gate
motor jeges ndada matolpang ua~nice car, not ripped off please
muat imbaru marsiajar au sa~You know, I'm just learning
muat nari ndang dope toras~I know I'm still not an adult
muat rio huduru boan kareta~Understandably, I rarely go out on my motorbike
mudarhu jaua alai rohaku batak~My blood is Javanese, but my heart is Batak
mudu au das au malum~guide me until I recover
mudu hami na poso amang~guide us young ones sir
mula haroroanmu di bulan maret~since your arrival in March
mula sadihari ho puna datu~since when do you have a handler
mula sadihari saut anak riar~Since when did you become a wild child?
mulak huta pe di mahilolong~returning home was postponed
mulak ma au sasadaku dijabu~I went home alone at home
mulak malu na mulai malungun~He was starting to miss him again
mulak malu na mulak malungun~I was embarrassed again and missed again
mulak manang alapi ma au~go home or pick me up
mulak tu bona ni bulu~return to the bamboo tree
mulak tu hampung di mamungka~return to the village to build
mulak tu jambi tanggal piga~What date will you return to Jambi City?
mulakma damang asa amam aga~Go home son, make your father proud
mulakma tu jabu nunga borngin~go home it's late
mulana au holan ra patunggomhon~. At first I just wanted to match
mulana ho tang di simalolonghi~At first you were perfect in my eyes
muningan hinan ibana betak ringkot~Ask him first if he knows what's important
munsung mi bolas musem damang~Your muzzle is fine too, son
muse bulan situak natonggi olo~I'm on my honeymoon now
muse di rittik diarin nasida~let them go crazy
muse didia ho anak panangga~where are you, puppy?
muse herek huhut mambege musik~again monkeying while listening to music
muse losok lao tu onan~I'm too lazy to go to the market
muse marbunga bunga roha hu~My heart is blooming again
muse marhua ho di jabu~what are you doing at home?
muse patamahon diri baen ibana~still making myself available to him
muse rame olo di an~it's busy there
muse sandang unang nang buruk~If you're pregnant, don't wear it out
muse serep tongtong di dege~down below it's always being stepped on
muse tuhu unang dibahen margait~Seriously, don't make a joke
musem di bondar lambung jabu~also in the gutters around the house
musem manjagai jarum na rampak~also keep an eye on the same needle
musem maranak marmansam mansam tompa~also give birth to various kinds
mussat tu batak ma ho~you move to Batak
mutmut diholangholang paduahon ampin dingkan~dispute between the two parties
na andar ari on adong~there are those present today
na andar marupahon gabus salik~which is clearly a lie/slander
na andar otik ma soarana~What's clear is the sound
na andorang manombo nibagas pikkiran~which is going on in my mind
na au arop hamu manontong~which I hope you settle in
na balga loni martata inongna~the big one was his mother's laugh
na baru manuhor do lae~who just bought it lae
na bontor sian lubuk rohahi~which is sincere from the bottom of my heart
na dang dapot ho pasiat~that you can't fulfill
na didia doho bahen utokutokmi~which is where you make your brain
na dilehon tu jolma haporseaonna~given to his trusted people
na diririt dohot ate au~the chosen one and not me!
na dituriturihon bagas torsa ni~that is told in the story
na goarna elat arop siding~those who are envious please step aside
na godang gusar di pusupusumi~which angers your heart a lot
na hamlet abang dohot angkang~who is the girlfriend of my brother and sister
na ho binahen ndada hasea~what you do is useless
na ho tumtum be tingki~that you put together every time
na hona hansar sa ho~It's you who has diarrhea
na huboto ho bagak pistik~all I know is that you are beautiful, dot
na huling na lulu hepeng~the one who sounds is looking for money
na imbaru pangir sa ho~you just washed your hair
na isi soara sulim sa~which has the sound of a flute
na jeges soara ni amang~That's a good voice, Dad
na jengeng loni sa margombar~What's scary is taking photos
na jengeng loni sa margombar~the picture is scary
na jogi ibana na marhuaso~the strong is the one who is powerful
na ma lantang ni babana~whose mouth is wide
na mambahen ngoluhu ndang margolle~which makes my life helpless
na mampuna dohot tohonan angkup~who has and dignity as well
na mandohoti taradop pustaha belek~which plays a role in anonymous letters
na mangguruhon sabuk monsak hadatuon~who studied shamanic martial arts loincloths
na manjalo poda bagas hata~who receive instruction in the word
na marbangko mamungka sian panjaha~constructive nature from the reader
na marhonaan dohot adat batak~relating to Batak customs
na maringanan tading didia ondeng~who live anywhere
na marobuk ganjang mandompakhon tupudi~the one with long hair looked back
na marpahu bagas di dibongoti~that is too deep to enter
na marupahon anak boru sian~who is the daughter of
na marupahon tolu anak sian~who are the three children of
na matena mambege hatahata on~death hearing these words
na naeng hu pelehon tuho~which I will present to you
na nari di sopo ise~Who's still in the hut?
na naung hita bolusi rap~what we've been through together
na naung leleng hita pudun~which we have had for a long time
na naung manontong di rohahi~which has settled in my heart
na ndada barani manghajongjonghon rohana~who does not dare to express his feelings
na ndada naeng boi mardenggan~who won't be able to make up
na ndang hea suda dingoluhu~which never ends in my life
na ndang maradat sa ho~which is not normal for you
na nunga dipaimbaru nibagas ibana~which has been renewed in him
na nunga mompo hangoluon ho~who has entered your life
na nunga saep mangajar hami~who has patiently taught us
na on ditangani karejona dipaberengbereng~this one is taken care of, the work is left
na on do angkang ni~which one is that brother?
na oto tarnata anak on~the stupid one turned out to be this kid
na otoan ma ho on~you are the stupid one
na otona tarnata anak on~The stupid one turned out to be this kid
na paet menak sopola rahutan~the bitter comfortable without ties
na paopathon radot holang sosial~fourthly, maintain social distance
na parjolo ingkon hita pasangap~the first thing we have to respect
na pogos lamu lea pogos~the poor become increasingly destitute
na ringkot ate mamurai ho~the important thing is not to curse you
na ringkot au monang pistik~the important thing is that I win the point
na ringkot boi di endat~the important thing is that it can be sucked
na ringkot dang tudos sambola~The important thing is that it's not like the next door
na ringkot gararan di mahilolong~the important thing is that the deposit is postponed.
na ringkot hipas ma hita~the important thing is that we are healthy
na ringkot unang pangke simor~The important thing is not to use emotions
na saep dohot bajur ondeng~just be patient and careful
na saep tangkas isi parsaulianna~those who are patient definitely have wisdom
na saridondon di bolong ondeng~just throw away the dirt
na sasudena tartutup alimos alimos~all of which are covered in shadows
na siholan au rampak mi~I miss you
na sintong manjadi dohot ho~what really happened to you
na songondia na ho lulu~which is what you are looking for
na sursar ido ate sihol~what is broken is not longing
na tangi dohot roha on~who is sensitive to this heart
na tangkas naeng mangatim gogona~who will definitely enjoy the results
na tarbahen sian bintang bintang~made of stars
na tonga angkanghi oloma au~My middle brother wants me
na tonga supingna tonggi hian~the one in the middle has a really sweet smile
na tongtong paganuphon naeng sasudena~who is always sufficient for everything
na ture di jolo hami~which is available in front of us
na une dohot olle au~that suits my talents
nada tarorom dai masi diagat~In his restrained tone, a feeling of pity was tapped
nadumenggan bagas pardenggan basa mangalean~excels in the gift of giving
naeng au dalani saboi au~I will do as much as I can
naeng au lete das mate~I will chase you until you die
naeng bongkar nama tokkin nai~I'll just unpack it in a moment
naeng di gonti ulu hambing~will be replaced with a goat's head
naeng hu balos pambahenanmu dainang~I will repay your services, Mom
naeng hu balos pambahenanmu oma~I will repay your service, Mom
naeng hu taktak luhut gunung~I will climb all the mountains
naeng hulean tampahan di ibana~I'll give him a chance.
naeng ma naek timbangan i~the scale will go up
naeng manggulut hami sian ibana~will snatch us from him
naeng mate ho hu bahen~I'll make you die
naeng pasingothon dalanmu bagas marpangkean~will reprimand you for the way you dress,
naeng talu dohot na imbaru~will lose to the new one
naeng tongtong hujaga parbogason on~I will always maintain this relationship
nagaor loni ho saut jolma~It's a mess when you're a person
nala apimi nala musem babana~your fire burns and your mouth burns
nalahang hian ho saut jolma~What a selfish person you are
namarbaju matua ndada ula ula~old maids don't sell well
namboru mangalompa gadong di dapur~Aunt cooks sweet potatoes in the kitchen
nandigan ho di lambung hu~when you are by my side
nandigan hu ida bintang marlinang~when I see the sparkling stars
nang au sala santabi olo~I'm sorry if I'm wrong
nang bonton au mambakbak mi~Even though it's hard for me to let you go
nang isi masala torsa ma~If there's a problem, tell me
nang manuhor martabak i nabodari~who bought the martabak last night
nang ndang tama dirihu persi~even though it doesn't deserve my version
nangaetan kuliah ambolong musem buku~Tired of wasting lectures and books
nanget nanget boan kareta ni~slowly drive the motorbike
nanget nanget marsiajar saotik saotik~slowly learn a little bit
nangetnanget diharat jorbut tipul ngingim~slowly being bitten by the horror of breaking your teeth
nangkin mangan lompan sa aha~What side dish did you eat?
nangkin na sambola hambirang ise~Who was it on the left?
nangkin pandok ra hatop marujung~I said I wanted to die quickly
nangkok motor unang godang eol~don't drive too much style
naporsuk au alani padan lipem~I suffer because of your false promises
naporsuk sa na hansit ni~the pain is miserable
nari adong do au niroham~am I still in your heart?
nari adong do pikkiran mi~your mind is still there
nari adong do utokutok mi~your brain is still there
nari au pasip ho olo~I'll still keep you quiet, okay?
nari danakna hu ida angkang~I saw you when I was still young, brother
nari isi pigapiga ragam panganon~there are still several types of food
nari isi sa pikkiran mi~your mind is still there
nari isi salimut balau mi~do you still have your blue blanket?
nari kedanhu pupus ni tondihu~still my best friend my lover
nari leleng butuha naung ngotngot~It's still a long time, my stomach is already sore
nari lomos dohot uluni tot~still unsure about the knee
nari martihas do pardonganon hita~Is there still a problem with our connection?
nari ondeng manatahon bolus pangkat~still stating it via status.
nari tabo dibege on ende~This song is still nice to hear
nari tarhilala isi aganan saribu~there are still quite a few, even if it's a thousand
nari taringot punguan na salpu~I still remember the past mass
nari ulahon turgas kantor au~still doing my office work
nasida asi dohot huta jabuna~they love their home area
nasida dipasiat angkup simangot badia~they were filled with holy spirit
nasida holan boto ojin parbegu~they only know the jinn as infidels
nasida ingkon disahaphon tu uhum~they must be submitted to the law
nasida mandohoti gulmiton hau mambalambal~they follow the movement of the swinging trees
nasida manjumpanghon ursa di harangan~they found a deer in the forest
nasida marbagi asi dohot asi~they share grace and love
nasida mardua pusupusu ngolu hu~they are both the heart of my life
nasida nunga ro ndang dope~have they arrived yet?
nasida pala lomo mida bulungna~they really like looking at the leaves
nasida sahala tihas marutokutok hatigoran~they are wise, wise, honest
nasida tarhurim asa rohana siat~they hope that their wish will come true
natal mulak do adong dope~Is Christmas coming home? Is it still there?
natana ho ndada puna roha~in fact you don't have a heart
naung au jalo hepengna nangkin~I have received the money earlier
naung bagak malo mangalompa musem~she's pretty good at cooking too
naung bagakma on ibana olo~This is how beautiful she is
naung balga ai pande alu~the reporter is already big
naung bali huta inganan sorang~have expelled the village where he was born
naung barani mangalo ho olo~I'm brave enough to fight you
naung beuk dohot hansit roha~already immune to heartache
naung bistok mangalo babi hu~I'm smart about fighting my pig
naung borngin asi roha daging~It's already evening, I feel sorry for my body
naung borngin nari huar masin~It's late at night still dismantling the machine
naung borngin tingki maridi borngin~It's already evening bath time
naung borngin tumagon modom san~It's already night, it's better to sleep there
naung borngin tumagon modom sude~It's late everyone should sleep
naung boto tarago nari holong~already know deceived still love
naung di hadungon aek tijur~already at the edge of saliva
naung di sirang borua batak~Batak girl has divorced
naung di ungkap ndang dope~is it open yet?
naung diapas di barangsi bura~have been insulted, insulted,
naung dihomat mata ndada isi~already blindfolded nothing
naung dilehon sa hepeng ni~he already gave him the money
naung dua pulu taon lompo~it was twenty years ago
naung duma ndada ingot iboto~already prosperous don't remember bro
naung dungo ndang dope ho~are you awake yet?
naung garar silehonlehon ndang dope~Have you paid your zakat yet?
naung godang batak di tondonghu~There are a lot of Bataks in my family
naung gonti hutingkir pipi ina~I've changed to seeing my mother's face
naung hami bagihon ansiat toktok~we have given it as an obligation
naung hea denggan dagingna hape~apparently already pregnant
naung hea tu kalimantan pastina~I've been to West Kalimantan before
naung hu agak luhut on~I expected all this
naung hudok unang ho martongtang~I told you, don't fight.
naung hudok unang meaman api~I told you not to play with fire
naung i goret sian parbornginan~has been removed from the inn
naung isi boban mulak ho~You already have your home cargo
naung isi nanaeng malim hu~I already have my priest candidate
naung jala partangiang na denggan~has become a good prayer
naung leleng ndada marjumpa bibir~long time no see lips
naung leleng saut taringot muse~It's been a long time so I remember again
naung lobi jo mangadopi abatabat~have already faced challenges
naung ma pardompahan ulu au~I've had my head scratched
naung malal dibahen soksok muse~I'm already annoyed at being annoyed again
naung malum sahitna mi damang~Your illness has healed, son
naung mampar tu desa portibi~has spread all over the world
naung manamuei hita dohot denggan~has hosted us well
naung mandaon meam sipak sipakan~I'm used to playing kicks
naung mangaso nangkin asi hu~I've had a rest, my darling
naung mansai hansit saleleng on~it's been too painful all this time
naung marbogas rosu do ho~have you had sex?
naung mardenggan sa hita seang~Have we made up, darling?
naung mardongan saripe ndang dope~are you married yet?
naung marjuang tumpal ibana langkup~I've been struggling to find out why he cheated
naung martaon taon ndang jumpa~haven't seen you for years
naung masak ndang dope lompalompana~Is the dish cooked yet?
naung matua alai godang leak~he's old but has a lot of attitude
naung matua ndada margogo muse~old and no longer powerful
naung nasogotan nari ondeng rame~It's already dawn and it's still busy
naung ndada isi hatiuron muse~there is no clarity anymore
naung pabalgahon au marsak maol~I've worked hard to raise me
naung padimposhon jabu ndang dope~Have you tidied up the house yet?
naung pigapiga loni ho pinasingot~you've been reminded several times
naung puna angkup unang jekjek~If you already have a partner, don't be naughty
naung ra hubuat hinan ido~I'm going to take it first
naung ro ni bao hita~our in-laws have arrived
naung sae bahen alame sa~I've finished making the dodol
naung sae buat alame sa~I've finished making the dodol
naung saehon ondeng denggan denggan~just finish it fine
naung saingkon sa sasudena manjadi~everything should happen
naung saut pangidoan hami nangkin~that's already our order
naung sihol mardomu dongan leleng~I miss seeing old friends
naung somal margapgap bingkas panangga~I'm used to lying, you dog
naung somal saut ndada hatotong~I'm used to it so I'm not surprised
naung songon partigatiga sina antong~It's like Chinese traders too
naung sun di di patandahon~are you ready to be introduced?
naung sun sian bilut martapian~ready from the bathroom
naung tangkas dang boi dipartida~it's certain, it can't be denied
naung tingkina di maradi lonsam~it's time for a complete rest
naung tudos ra sohot hamuna~It's like you're about to get married
naung tuk di tamba so~I'm tired of the traffic jams
naung unang di pasaut sinamago~Don't make it a problem anymore
naungdo hita ngolu denggan dohot~have we lived in harmony with
nda ibana somalna tarsor tarlambat~isn't he usually almost late?
nda laos tudos ni pangalahona~isn't that how he behaves?
ndada aha ma holan martandang~It's okay, just dating
ndada ahaaha tarhilala dohar asam~it's okay, it's okay to get a grade
ndada antusi dohot habiaran au~don't understand my anxiety
ndada au ndada mangarti bahasam~no I don't understand your language
ndada biar alani nari pirus~Don't be afraid because it's still a virus
ndada biar riap na biar~not afraid of tinea versicolor that is afraid
ndada binoto ise na padalanhonsa~it is unknown who did it
ndada boi dipandokoni jolma on~I can't say this person
ndada boi holong hita sungkot~our love cannot be hindered
ndada boi manang ndada diloas~cannot or is not allowed
ndada boi marhata muse au~I can't say any more
ndada boi mulak isi mara~can't go home there's an epidemic
ndada boi pasombuhon nasida dipasuda~can't let them be finished off
ndada boi tarsunggul anggo naung~can't wake up if it's already
ndada boima hupikkiri on luhut~I can't think about all this
ndada bolas diparhasomal ido muse~can't get used to it anymore
ndada bolas ihut ihuton ma~you can't join in
ndada bolas mangadangi naung sabulan~I can't go on a cruise for a month
ndada bolas manutung harangan bersineangan~you are not allowed to burn forests carelessly
ndada boto dipeakhon di dia~don't know where to put it
ndada boto do jolma on~this person doesn't know
ndada bulus pabalikhon palak tangan~it is not easy to turn the palm of the hand
ndada dijama jama sandang sadasa~Don't hold onto your own pregnancy
ndada diloas tuhan ho mangehet~God does not allow you to mock
ndada dirimpu ndada hu agak~I didn't expect it, I didn't expect it
ndada hea au ida hunsina~I've never seen the key
ndada hea hita mardomu martaon~we haven't seen each other in years
ndada hea mangarti bonarna holong~never understand the sincerity of love
ndada hepeng ndada isi hasian~no money no favorite
ndada holan lensem dongan ondeng~not just sarcasm, friends
ndada inum alkohol muse asi~Don't drink alcohol anymore darling.
ndada isi artina mamikkirhon mi~there's no point in thinking about you
ndada isi artina parsuma ondeng~it's no use it's useless
ndada isi baga muse apusi~there is no hope anymore
ndada isi gisi sa gorengan~There is no nutrition in fried food
ndada isi hamuna ndada torop~no you guys, no festivities
ndada isi harbue mangan eme~no grain eating rice
ndada isi hepeng di manuhorna~there is no money to buy it
ndada isi jolma manuhor situhoron~no one is shopping
ndada isi na haboraton angkanghu~no one minded my brother
ndada isi na ingkon digarar~there is nothing to pay
ndada isi na mamekhon au~no one pays attention to me
ndada isi na manganturehon au~no one cares about me
ndada isi na mangantusi mi~no one understands you
ndada isi na mangontang ho~no one invited you
ndada isi na ra diririt~no one wants to be chosen
ndada isi na ra mangangku~no one wants to admit it
ndada isi paho manisia on~there is no moral to this man
ndada isi pangalaho mi bodat~you have no morals, monkey
ndada isi pangke hua au~I don't use any sauce
ndada isi pedan au mangkar~none of my friends stay up late
ndada isi sigaret ndada sobu~no cigarettes no fun
ndada isi tutung panutungan aha~there is no burnt or what?
ndada isi ulaon dohot hasiputon~no work and busyness
ndada jangkit pining ari on~not climbing areca nut today
ndada lomo parmabuk au ma~I don't like drunks
ndada luhut aropan gabe hanataan~not all hopes come true
ndada mangarti aha na didokhon~don't understand what is being said
ndada mangarti au muse bahasam~I don't understand your language anymore
ndada mangorui ae tama hami~does not diminish our respect
ndada maniru ramuan ho ondeng~Don't just copy your recipe
ndada maraloalo antus ndada sobu~don't disagree, it's not fun
ndada markassa di daging sadasa~don't look in the mirror at your own body
ndada marsoara alai maninggalhon tihas~doesn't make a sound but leaves a mark
ndada meam ndada bagak bagak~not playing not cool cool
ndada mura anggo mangalului hepeng~it's not easy to make money
ndada naeng lua dolok dieaki~will not run away from the mountains to be chased
ndada naeng mago sian roha~will not disappear from the heart
ndada naeng ondingonding holong on~will not hinder this love
ndada pa mago sian roha~it won't disappear from my heart
ndada pangke jabut hurang tunggun~not wearing a mustache lacks authority
ndada pinarsinta hami tudos on~We don't want it to be like this
ndada porlu bagak namun marhepeng~You don't need to be beautiful as long as you have money
ndada porlu bege pantas ibana~no need to listen to what he says
ndada porlu jolma na tang~no need for a perfect person
ndada porlu mandilat asa tarbereng~no need to lick to be seen
ndada porlu porso rampak au~no need to lie to me
ndada pos dohot sintuhu mi~not sure about your seriousness
ndada puna hepeng ordong mirdong~no money, dizzy
ndada puna utokutok ho on~you don't have a brain
ndada ra au maroma panoroni~I don't want to have a stepmother
ndada ra au umma ho~I don't want to kiss you
ndada ra soal au rampak~I don't want to debate the same
ndada renges modomhu alani sihol~I didn't sleep well because I missed it
ndada roha mamahe uhal batak~I didn't mean to use Batak language
ndada sadape pangidoanhu ama jua~You refused none of my requests
ndada sala ende olle lung~no wrong song, natural talent
ndada sala muse olle lung~there's no mistaking it, natural talent
ndada sangkap rohahi maninggalhon hamuna~I have no intention of leaving you
ndada saoloan beha manisia dipasintong~disagree about how humans are justified
ndada sasintongna hita tudos on~it's not natural for us to be like this
ndada saut ari on marlange~no swimming today
ndada saut birubiru na nalilu~don't be a lost sheep
ndada siholna angkang rampak au~I don't miss my brother or me
ndada sudung na marnatal on~nothing special this Christmas
ndada sudung tudos baea mi~not special like your man
ndada tabo tokke tihas ni~It's not good for the former boss
ndada taboan ngolu di undungundung~not comfortable living in a cottage
ndada tais tubis sian bonana~not far from the bamboo shoots
ndada tarae naung sabulan lobi~Can't believe it's been more than a month
ndada taratara au tanggo bohim~I don't like seeing your face
ndada tarbalos do parjuangan hu~Is my struggle not repaid?
ndada tarbayanghon tudos on hanataanna~it's unimaginable that this is the reality
ndada tarpangke di utokhu ni~it's not used in my brain
ndada tartambok ndada tarpaboa muse~unstoppable, unspeakable
ndada tontu bolas on satatan~no, of course you can, here's a note
ndada tota tombom ndada sobu~no fisticuffs are not fun
ndada tupa au tartupuk begu~there's no way I'm possessed by a ghost
ndada tupa di asi malbangalbang~it is impossible to give slack
ndada tupa di mamorso ni~it's impossible to deny that
ndang adong gabus di hita~there are no lies in us
ndang anto ansosohot sedan ni~don't care about the sobbing
ndang boto na dia debatana~don't know which god
ndang dope boto ra pasang~I don't know yet whether to install it
ndang dope diburi naung digombar~not cleaned yet, photographed
ndang dope habotoan omo mudarna~the blood results are not yet known
ndang dope hea hona pollat~never been stepped on
ndang dope huduru asam ugamona~its religious values have not yet come out
ndang dope inum ubat ibana~he hasn't taken his medicine yet
ndang dope isi pangisi roha~there is no filler yet
ndang dope isi pistik tiur~there is no bright spot yet
ndang dope isi tanggal merado~There's still no red date yet
ndang dope maderder hepeng hu~my money hasn't been disbursed yet
ndang dope mardongan saripe au~I'm not married yet
ndang dope masak musem indahanna~the rice isn't cooked yet
ndang dope pistar nari marsiajar~not yet proficient, still learning
ndang dope porang naung pauneunehon~not yet the war has been surrendered
ndang dope puna baju lebaran~I don't have Eid clothes yet
ndang dope ro musem barangna~the goods haven't arrived yet
ndang hasuharan marmula sopola pansidungi~no problem begins without a solution
ndang hu arihon sada mararga~I don't have anything valuable
ndang huagam ho olohon ido~I never thought you would do that
ndang hurimpu apala hatop salpu~I didn't expect it to go by so quickly
ndang isi hepenghi lua donganhu~I don't have any money, my friend ran away
ndang isi indahan mangan eme~there is no rice to eat grain
ndang isi oraora sian au~there are no restrictions from me
ndang isi rujiruji laba mago~there is no calculation of profit and loss
ndang malo hata batak ho~you're not fluent in Batak language
ndang marsipaidaan ho rampak ibana~you fight with him
ndang marsipaidaan jo imbaru karejo~fight first then work
ndang naeng tarpulos turiturian leleng~there won't be a long story going on
ndang pa biar dohot laho~I won't be afraid and leave
ndang porlu ho elek au~you don't need to persuade me
ndang suda nandigan torus didiori~it won't end if you keep looking
ndang tahan au samansam on~I can't stand being like this
ndang tontu jolma tartutup denggan~not necessarily a good closed person
ndang une potongan dohot pangalaho~Appearance does not match behavior
ndangma holan ondeng ndada bolas~it's not just that it's not allowed
ndangna ho nuaeng di medan~instead you are now in the field
ndangna karejo baliksa marende torus~Instead of working, I keep singing
nga malo ho ate babi~You're smart, pig
nga masak ra indahan i~I think the rice is cooked
nga sega be barang i~the item was damaged
ngabe giot huduru au tolon~I want to get out, I swear
ngabe salomo ho ondeng asi~Just do whatever you like, darling
ngabe unang tuhu hian ma~That's enough. don't be serious
ngali sahali tudos di pusuk~it's as cold as it is at the top
ngalian mohop ma barang i~that thing's feverish
ngangaetan daginghu bonsir kambona pining~My body aches because of the areca nut stems
ngolu au meret mussat inganan~My life has moved from place to place
ngolu di didalani diatimi dihamauliatehon~Life is to be lived, enjoyed and appreciated
ngolu gok dohot ansi gogo~life is full of deception
ngolu manghorhon dohot barita nauli~living impact with the gospel
ngolu ni tudos galapang padati~life is like a wagon wheel
ngolu nunga dibarukbak angkup pangimbung~life has been destroyed by lust
ngolu on ate olap tudostudos~Life is not about comparison
ngolu on naung isi ruhut~This life has rules
ngolu on rundut hian olo~Life is really complicated, isn't it?
ngolu pe tarhira ndang tama~life doesn't seem worth it
ngolu tunduk sibuk manang simangot~live according to the flesh or the spirit?
ngoluhu ndang dos dohot ho~My life is not balanced with you
ngorngor olap roha na tipul~fretting about a broken heart
ngorngor saep ardoanhu naeng sae~slowly patiently my business will be finished
ngot ma annon hansit holonghu~Get up, I'll get sick, my love
ngot ma sian dabu mi~get up from your fall
ngot mangalo patu i tidos~rise up against, submit to oppression
ni apostel na holong tuhan~the apostles who love God
ni godang babi di uduran~that's a lot of pigs in the line
ni ise na jama hau~that's who holds the wood
ni loloan sasudena dipabotohon tu~the attendees were all told
ni ma panghorhonna ho hilalahon~that's the result you feel
ni na di somak somak~that's the one in the bushes
ni naung saut toktok ni~it has become the obligation of the people
ni pandapot pos ni roha~that's a belief opinion
ni sajo na di muningan~that's all that was asked
nia hagompison dohot musem hamalumon~give health and healing
nian puna hela tudos on~I want to have a daughter-in-law like this
ninna disuru pangke bahasa batak~he said he was told to use Batak language
ninna jolma simagomago dohot longor~he said people were unemployed and stupid
ninna ra saritai na nantuari~he said he wanted to tell me about yesterday
nipi dohot aropan pe mago~dreams and hopes are lost
nipi na hea hita bahen~the dreams we once made
nipi na hea jogi bahen~a dream that you have ever had the strength to make
nomor alut tolu pulu onom~serial number thirty-six
nomor pitu utokna di duguldugul~number seven his brain is on his knees
nonang dabu holong bagas mandailing~conversation about falling in love in Mandarin
nonang nonang asa ndada longo~chat so it's not lonely
nuaeng andorang pakansi ndada manontu~currently on an uncertain holiday
nuaeng au karejo di parbagasan~now I work in housing
nuaeng au mangunjun manghorhon sa~Now I'm trying to influence him
nuaeng au marumur sia taon~now I am nine years old
nuaeng au marumur tolu taon~now I am three years old
nuaeng bahen jabu sian papan~now make a house out of boards
nuaeng hu boto hu mararga~now I know I am valuable
nuaeng imbaru isi ae panolsolion~now there is just a feeling of regret
nuaeng naung ndang isi pandapotan~now there is no income
nuaeng saut lambok anggo marhatai~now it's cool to talk
nuaeng tudos sisean pangalaho nadenggan~now like a virtuous disciple
nunga boi bahasa batak kale~I can already speak Batak language, friend
nunga boi damang tu pesta~Dad can go to the party now
nunga borngin annon hona rimas~I'm going to be angry tonight
nunga borngin beta umma jo~it's late, let's kiss first
nunga borngin gugai pardijabu jolma~It's already late at night disturbing someone's wife
nunga borngin ho modom san~It's late you slept there
nunga borngin manang dang mondokondok~it's late, aren't you sleepy?
nunga borngin modom huhut haolan~It's been a night of sleeping while hugging
nunga borngin ombasna lao modom~it's night time to sleep
nunga borngin on tumagon modom~It's better to sleep tonight
nunga borngin on, tutup pintu~It's already tonight, close the door
nunga borngin pe godang leak~It's late at night and there's a lot of action
nunga borngin saut tutup bandara~It's late so the airport is closed
nunga borngin tingkina ho modom~It's night time for you to sleep
nunga borngin tumagon hita modom~It's already night time, it's better if we sleep
nunga borngin tutup sajo kodena~It's already nighttime and the shop closes
nunga borngin unang bollang torus~It's already late, don't stay awake
nunga borngin unang gaor asi~It's late, don't be noisy, darling
nunga borngin unang gaor holonghi~It's late, don't be noisy, my darling
nunga borngin, maradi ma hita~It's late, let's rest
nunga jeges inganan paranginanginan mui~Your resting place is good
nunga monding tu di tuhan~has returned to God
nunga muba uhum na buruk~the law has changed for the worse
nunga mulai ngalian barang on~This thing is starting to get cold
nunga oma motorna nunga ro~Yes, Mom, the car has arrived
nunga paradehon panganon dohot siinumon~has served food and drinks
nunga ro bolis bagas rohahi~Satan has come into my heart
nunga ro di parbagason hami~have come to our wedding
nunga ro hami pahompu mi~We have come, your grandchildren
nunga ro kristus sipalua hita~Christ our Redeemer has come
nunga ro nanaeng simatua hu~My future in-laws have arrived
nunga ro pande pasuda indahan~The man who finished the rice has arrived
nunga ro unang holan singga~You're here, don't just stop by
nunga tangkas anggo songon on~it's clear that it's like this
nunga tangkas dapot molo songoni~I'm sure you can do that
nunga unang lola da holonghi~Don't disturb me, my darling
nunga! singkop! unang pasingot muse~Already! Enough! don't remind me again
nungama santabi molo lola ho~never mind, sorry if I bother you
odoran angkang unsok sadihari amang~When is it your brother's turn to talk, sir?
odoran bahasa hami sadihari amang~When will it be our turn to speak, sir?
oke das marjumpa asing ari~okay see you another day
oke hasian sajo molo songoni~okay darling then
oke hu paima haroroan sa~OK, I'll wait for his arrival
oke nuaeng hamuna handit poti~OK, now you lift the chest
okema anggo apala risik olo~OK, then be careful
okema marsiajar na denggan olo~OK, study well
okhu ianakhon ugamo parmalim kristen~I am a child of religious beliefs in Christian Batak land
olap alimos parjumpaon dohot dongan~about the meaning of encounters with others
olap parompuan na tipul roha~about a broken hearted woman
olat ihut naniolina torus ihur~lead with his wife and tail
olo ampun ama ama marsiadu~Oh my goodness, sir, you are racing
olo hu antuk ho ha~I want to hit you ha
olo jahoba lean hami hagogoon~O Allah.., give us strength
olo jahoba urupi naposom on~O Allah, help your servant
olo jesus urupima sesahon dosahu~O Jesus, please, wash away my sins
olo naung marlapatan hamu parbiar~Yes, that means you're cowardly
olo naung marsogot hita pajumpang~yes, we'll meet tomorrow
olo naung punguhon hepeng ondeng~OK, just collect the money
olo ndada porlu tudutudu au~Yes, no need to point me out
olo suda ruangna dirujak gora~Yes, after the hole was stabbed, I screamed
olo tu poda na sintong~obey the true teachings
olo uduti ma karejona hasian~Yes, keep working, dear
olo, boasa adong masalam hape~Yes, why is your problem apparently?
olodo ho gabe angkup au~will you be my partner
olodo ho saut amangamang hu~will you be my husband
olodo ho sohot dohot ahu~Will you marry me ?
olohon binsan mambahen ho sonang~do it while it makes you happy
oloma hamu sohot dohot au~will you marry me
omar ibana mardingat ni luhut~he was confused remembering it all
ombun ombun di manogot ari~dew dew in the morning
ombun sillam mangalinggomi parbolatan hita~Thundercloud overshadows our borders
omo ndada naeng manggabusi pambahenan~the results will not lie to the efforts
ompung boru ajiajian na dohar~the witch who can
ompung boru ho mangan sendor~Your grandmother eats cendol
ompung doli andorang manaba pisang~Grandpa is cutting bananas
ompung doli dohot dua siminikna~grandfather and two grandchildren
ompung doli hu andorang marria~My grandfather is deliberating
ompung doli mi naung mate~Your grandfather is dead
on adong ma jolma oto~this is an idiot
on anak sisean ina guru~This is the teacher's student
on andorang mangapuli diri olo~This is entertaining
on au manghatai bahasa batak~I speak Batak language
on boru boru dang jinak~This girl's daughter is not tame
on do pe ho rimas~then you get angry
on ende habangsoon jolma batak~This is the national anthem of the Batak people
on isi satatan sian borum~here is a note from your daughter
on ma manisia tois ni~this is the savage human being
on mamalang ari ari hu~This is ruining my day
on muse tortor pangke ulos~This is a dance using ulos
on na giot au ondol~this is what I want to aim for
on na ho roha pa~this is what you mean right?
on na mangajari ompung doli~this is what grandfather taught
on naung borngin unang marsoara~It's late, don't make a sound
on ra borhat asi hu~I'm leaving, my darling
on tahuluk ate marsineang tahuluk~This peci is not just any peci
on tihas tulen mi tarnata~This is your true nature
on unang bolongkon sampah marsineangan~Here, don't throw rubbish carelessly
ondihon au dohot tondonghu tuhan~protect me and my family God
ondihon hami anak anak mi~protect us your children
ondihon paduahon jolma matua hu~protect my parents
ondingonding manggondit dohot manang mangumpat~obstruct, limit and/or revoke
ondol loni beha huduru hita~great time. how do we get out
ondol loni ido boi saor~great that time. can blend in
ongkos bilut pere digarar ama~Free room rental, paid by father
onma anggim jaman sikkola jo~This is your little brother from school
onma au musu igung bolang~here I am, anti masher
onma tangianghi mandapothon ho tuhan~this is my prayer to you God
onma tiruan manisia ndada marparange~this is an example of an immoral human being
onpe hata panjaloon sian au~that's my greeting
onpe musem sagi parsadaan on~Likewise for this community
opat bulan mardalan pala hatop~four months went by very quickly
opat ratus sia pulu pitu~four hundred and ninety seven
oppung bagi jolo hepeng mu~Grandpa/Grandma asks for your money first
ou aha ai hosing muningan~Yes, why are you asking again?
ou amang on muse martagi~Yes, sir, this is still charging
ou angkang mulak huta martani~Yes, my brother went home to farm
ou annon au etong muse~Yes, I'll calculate again later
ou annon borngin au dongkon~Yes, I'll tell you later tonight
ou annon hulehon rampak panganon~Yes, I'll give you food later,
ou annon ma sadihari sadihari~yeah, wait sometime
ou au paima baritana marsogot~Yes, I'll wait for news tomorrow
ou au paima tuptup marsogot~Yes, I'm waiting for tomorrow's decision
ou boi do manghaholongi ho~yes, I usually love you
ou dongan pote laos tabo~yes friend. Petai is delicious
ou holong so dohot himpal~Yes, it's a shame it's jammed and congested
ou ingkon pinungka dohot sangkap~Yes, it must start with intention
ou jalo asi di surirang~Yes, thanks for the information
ou ma bahasa ahaon muse~Yes, what language?
ou ma pa punam asi~Yes, it's yours, darling
ou naung au palas lompanna~Yes, I've heated the side dish
ou ndada bagebage ni suratan~Yes, it's not finished writing
ou ni pala tutu oloi~Yes, that's very true, isn't it?
ou on lambok i pardolokan~Yes, it's cool in the mountains
ou ra martumbuk dohot mi~Yes, I want to box with you
ou tuani ma anggo apala~yes, thank goodness if that's the case
pa hu taktak luhut dolok~I'll climb all the mountains
pa hu tanom niroha ondeng~I'll just keep it in my heart
pa hubahen ho mauli bulung~I'll make you happy
pa huputik di mi holong~I picked it for you darling
pa taringot saleleng ngolu hu~I'll remember it all my life
paberik sa ndang dope dipauli~The factory hasn't been built yet
pabidanghon passorion dohot mangalului pedan~expand your social circle and find friends
padalanhon aha na damang parbaga~do what father expects.
padalanhon aha na ho parbaga~do what you expect.
padalanhon parbogason daging huhut monjap~having intercourse while squatting
padalanhon ulaon serep asupan pinsangpinsang~perform work under threat of punishment
padan hu tongtong tu tingkosi~I always keep my promises
padan mi tonggi tudos joring~Your promises are sweet as jengkol
padao hami sian sasude mara~keep us from all danger
padao ma hami sian sahit~keep us from disease
padaohon hami sian sahit ni~keep us away from the disease
paduadua ondeng tudos solop hapit~alone together like flip flops
paduahon horong ni marsi manaroso~the two groups attacked each other
paduahon inding tarugi sian bulungna~Second, separate the stick from the leaves
paduahon tangan hure tu jolo~both hands extended forward
paente hasian adong dope donganhu~wait darling, my friend is still there
paeserhon sasara ronsot anak tartontu~forcibly removing certain children
paet ni juada ni aha~what's the bitterness of juada?
pagodang marsiajar asa ndang oto~Learn more so you don't become stupid
pagodang tangiang mi tu tuhan~increase your prayers to God
pagodanghu kopi saut susa modom~too much coffee makes it difficult to sleep
pagodanghu mangan sira ho on~You eat too much salt
pagogo dohot totaphon rohahi tuhan~strengthen and strengthen my heart, Lord
pahatop pasada pareakhon indonesia timbul~moving forward towards a developed Indonesia
pahean ido sai jeges diabithon~the clothes are very nice to wear
pahompu parjolona sian anak parompuan~his first grandchild from a daughter
pahompum manghaholongi ho ompung doli~your grandson loves you grandpa
pahompum manghaholongi mi ompung doli~Your grandson loves you grandfather
pahou do sigaret ido holong~Stop smoking, darling
paima au hosing tusan hinan~wait for me to go back there first
paima borum on sangap oma~Wait for your daughter to be successful, Mom
paima das dohar hepeng hian~wait until you get the money first
paima das manuk tarhona lupaklupak~wait until the chicken gets caught in the trap
paima hita jalak na salin~wait, let's look for the difference
paima marboras gundur au olo~Wait for my pumpkin to bear fruit
paima marboras gundur au olo~Wait for my pumpkin to bear fruit
paima mate jo gelleng jolma~wait for someone to die first
paima papunguhon hepeng sinamot angkang~Wait to collect your dowry money
paima tarpapungu hepeng hot ripe~Wait for the wedding money to be collected
paima tokkin patik nahinaholongan raja~Wait a moment for the king's order
paima tongkin muse au mulak~wait a minute, I'll be home
painding dirihu sian portibi on~separate myself from this world
pakansi au meam tu jabum~I'm going to play at your house on holiday
pakansi jo dang adong hepeng~First holiday, no money
pala godang na giot hupasahat~there's so much I want to say
pala jeges inganan hita on~our place is very beautiful
pala jogi manghorhon roha nasida~very strong influence on their hearts,
pala jogi pangimbung mangan sa~his appetite is very strong
pala jorbut loni olo pa~it's very scary, isn't it?
pala longang dohot martopak tangan~very amazed and applauded
pala ndada patut di dipasuman~very inappropriate to imitate
pala silas ni roha sahali~very happy
pala tarhiap mambege panghataion damangna~very surprised to hear his father's words
palas miak saok bagas balanga~heat cooking oil in a skillet
palimahon ansiat alingan pande lapa~fifth as assistant surgeon
palito jolo dohot palito pudi~front lights and rear lights
palobihu jagar i rongkom pa~it's too beautiful to paint, right?
palua ondeng utang naung sae~just let go, the credits are over
palua ondeng utang susa sae~just let it go, credit is hard to finish
pamalum la portibi on tuhan~restore this world, God
pamalum siulubalang ari on tuhan~restore this earth God
pamanganhu tompu tedak sangga hujaha~. My mouth spontaneously opened when I read
pamate ondeng biangna alai sadihari~just kill the dog. but when?
pambahenan ndang hea manjehei omo~Effort never betrays the results
pambahenanmu na nunga ho lean~your services that you have provided
pamenakhon diri di borngin on~calm down tonight
pamian angkang baen annon nasogotan~save it for tomorrow morning
pamilian boa nantuari mardalan mohop~yesterday's general election was hot
panangga dianjak simanjujungna muse modom~The dog stepped on his head while sleeping
panangkasion pala andar inang baju~Auntie's explanation is very clear
pandaoni sa roa bajuna bou~The doctor is ugly, his clothes smell bad
pandaoni sihol hu marujung hansit~My longing medicine ended in pain
pande mangapian alai au holong~jealous but I love you
pandok anak parompuan paling metmet~the name for the youngest daughter
pandok di anggi ina parompuan~a term for a mother's younger sister
pandok muse asa hupamate ho~Say it again, let me kill you
pandok ompung boru parompuan di~what is called a female grandmother in Batak
pandokan siapul sagi na marujung~comforting sentences for the dead
panesa adong ma sabiji parenta~forgiveness is a command
pangalaho mi tudos sambal andaliman~Your behavior is like andaliman chili sauce
pangambati na papulikhon hita holonghi~the barriers that separate us, my darling
panganon na timbil tabo andar~the most delicious food is clear
pangaotion ruar lung toras on~contemporary space exploration
pangaranto na ndada binoto hamaradongonna~migrants whose whereabouts are unknown
panggang i ma di au~roast it on me
panghasoloman borua batak au on~I'm a Batak girl fan
panghataion dohot pangalangkana ndada rampak~his words and deeds are not the same
panghataion mi manolang i roha~Your words are stuck in my heart
panghophopon hu ndang dope salpu~My sacrifice is not over yet
panghophopon jesus kristus na paluahon~the saving sacrifice of Jesus Christ
pangido di tumbuk on anak~ask for this child's fist
pangido godang hepeng pipi boli~ask for a lot of dowry down payment
pangido jo hepengna rampak haholonganna~ask his girlfriend for money first
pangido ma tu dolidoli mi~ask your man
pangido ma tuak sagalas ina~ask for a glass of palm wine
pangido panumpak dohot pasombu sihol~ask for blessings and express your longing
pangido poda ma sian hamuna~ask for advice from you guys
pangido santabi sabalga balga sa~I'm very sorry
pangir pangke te bodat an~wash your hair with monkey dung there!
pangke hata indonesia ardang amang~Use Indonesian poetry, sir
pangke indahan las tabo loni~using warm rice is delicious
pangke margana inang pe saut~I also use my mother's surname
pangke solop hapit pe saut~Even wearing flip flops is fine
pangkema bahasa batak na sintong~use correct Batak language
pangkema marga ido i goarmu~use that surname in your name
pangolu jo palito jolo ni~Turn on the headlights first
pangondian sagi bangso hami indonesia~protection for our nation Indonesia
pangondong baea baea tu parompuan~male to female greetings
pangondong ina sian holi baea~Greetings from the mother of the man's bones
pangsiun ma baba mi pandok~retire, your mouth says
pangunjunan na isi i portibi~trials that exist in the world
panjaha na humarojor dohot gumarapus~a hasty and careless reader
panjangkon tona ni padohot au~The recipient of the message included me
pansarian adong ma mata pandaraman~pansarian is a livelihood
pantun ho tu angkang ni~you are polite to that brother
panungkupon parpudi panuratan ari on~Final registration closing today
panurgasi turgas sang ratu batak~executor of the duties of the Batak queen
paotootohon sian jo urupi dipasuhar~has been cheating for a long time, please change it
papos hu porsea di mi~make sure I believe in you
parade kopi sa au manghombar~prepare the coffee! I docked
paradehon apulan di hamuna luhut~providing entertainment for all of you
paradianan ni roha na parpudi~the final stop of the heart
paradihon luhut on tingkina modom~stop all this it's time to sleep
parbogason hita porlu di paandar~our relationship needs to be clarified
parbogason ho ndada i tolopi~Your relationship is not approved
parbue ni tabo sahali digagat~the fruit is very delicious to eat
parbuena marrupa tingko dohot lunjung~The fruit is round and oval in shape
pardagingon asi loni rampak angkang~you love your brother
pardagingon on aha la oloi~What are you doing?
pardijabu angkang hita jou aha~What should we call my brother's wife?
pardijabu mansoadahon ndada pajagarhon amangamang~a disobedient wife does not respect her husband
pardijabu porso di haporluon kaluargag~wife lies for family needs
pardompahan mi saut ihut mamak~Your forehead becomes wider
pardonganon dengke luti dohot padidit~friendship between snakehead fish and squirrels
pareakhon tu na ndada binoto~heading into the unknown
parenta tuhan na tu lima~God's fifth commandment
parhobason lao ulaon jolma sahuta~Preparing to go to a village party
parhobason lao ulaon pedan sahuta~Preparing to go to a village friend's party
parhundul indonesia godang na lahang~Many Indonesian people are greedy
paributhu tongam sahali soara mi~noisy, your voice is very loud.
parjolo adong jabu adat batak~First there is the traditional Batak house
parjolo manjangkithon tangiang tu tuhan~First, say a prayer to God
parjuangan damang di borua metmet~father's fight for little girl
parjuangan hita ndang dope marujung~Our struggle is not over yet
parkarejo hu denggan roha luhut~All my employees are kind
parolopolopon ari hamamate tuhan jesus~celebration of the day of the death of the Lord Jesus
parolopolopon ulaon nantuari pala torop~Yesterday's party celebration was very lively
parompuan na bagak parkarejo pir~beautiful, hardworking woman
parompuan ni ndada di digalege~the woman is not to be damaged
parompuan sabarma dolidoli gomos ma~girls, be patient. be a strong man
parompuan tang di mata baoa~perfect woman in men's eyes
parompuan targora apala bagak mangir~the woman was so beautiful
parpadanan imbaru dohot leleng bagas~new and old testaments in
parpintoron on holan lehononhu bahenmu~I only give this sincerity to you
parrohahon torsa di toru on~pay attention to the story below
parsadarian on daginghu ngalian mohop~All day my body has been feverish
parsial ingkon nantuari au mambuatsa~Damn, I should have picked it up yesterday
parsuma bagak alai rohami ungap~beautiful free! but your heart is rotten
parsuma mangaramoti roha di ibana~it's useless to guard your heart for him
partanda ni tarbagi gabe dua~The code is divided into two
partompuran sintong sintong naeng dipungka~the battle is really about to begin
parungkil sinamot angkang on asi~This brother's dowry fighter is dear
pasahat ondeng ra uhal aha~just say what you want to discuss
pasahat rampak dongan burjum ni~tell your good friend
pasahat sasude masala na tartaon~convey any outstanding problems.
pasahat tabe au di ibana~convey my greetings to him
pasahat tabe au di poso~convey my regards to early
pasang rongket di dangka nangkin~Put glue on the branch
pasaut hataluan guru naumbalga dingolumu~Make defeat the biggest teacher in your life
pasaut tuhan nomor sada dingolumu~make God number one in your life
pasidinghon ae holong hu tuho~set aside my love for you
pasidinghon asupan singa na male~Avoid the threat of hungry lions
pasipasi opat pulu ribu hepenghi~the remaining forty thousand of my money
pasipasi tolu ratus muse sa~the remaining three hundred
pasombu au ardoi masala au~let me handle my problem....
pasombu gabe bunga na hembang~let it become a flower that blooms
pasombu luhut marhambang dohot sandirina~let everything develop by itself
pasombu na salpu lokma salpu~let bygones be bygones
pasombu ondeng naung lao ibana~just let him go
pasombu saritamu marsada rap saritahu~let your story unite with mine
pasombu tuhan ondeng na manorhon~Just let God decide
pasombuhon ibana rimas di hu~let him be angry with me
paspas ma marsogot na buat~I'll take it tomorrow
pasuda arang bosi lam himpal~finish the iron charcoal more and more intact
pat hu tarhona suga pinsur~My leg was hit by a sharp thorn
pat ompung boru tarhapit pintu~Grandma's foot was caught in the door
patandahon goar au au kalas~introduce my name Ã¢â‚¬Â¦, I am class Ã¢â‚¬Â¦
patandahon goar au somal dijou~introduce my name, usually called
patandahon on inang baju mi~This is your aunt
pataridahon dohot dipadalan godang pambahenan~stuck out and put in a lot of effort
patoguhon tali pardonganon bagas habuluson~strengthen the ties of brotherhood in simplicity
patoluhon palas aek sondot gurgur~third, heat the water until it boils
patoruhu roha bagas marhalado tuhan~humility in serving God
patuginjang hagompison pardagingon dohot partondion~improve physical and spiritual health
pauli au sada bagian olo~make me a portion, okay?
pauli jo bilut amang partanda~Make Mr. Sandi's room first
paune dohot halomoon ruas tondong~adjust to family members' preferences
pedan hita nunga marujung portibi~our friend has passed away
pedan holan sorop andorang isi~Friends only come when they are there
pedan pedan na asing unduk~the other friends nodded
pedan ro molo ho marhepeng~friends come if you have money
pedan tingki salpu sondot nuaeng~friends from past to present
persi naung leleng tingki nuaeng~modern version of the classic
pestana ndang dope di buhai~the party hasn't started yet
pidong ama unsok mardangka tolu~The three-pronged Ucok father bird
pidong au habang tu ombun~my bird flies to the clouds
pidong lote di ginjang dangka~quail on a branch
pidong pidong martutu mira bohi~the birds chirped happily
pidong samar mulak tu samak~Seagull returns to Samar
pigapiga ari laos au mangebati~a few days later I visited
pigapiga detik laos ibana sunggul~a few seconds later he realized
pigapiga goar ulos antara lain~several ulos names, among others
pikkir tu pedan dongan tubu~Be careful with your fellow clan friends
pikkiri ma denggandenggan tagan torsa~Think carefully before telling the story
pinarsinta naeng boi manaluhon haadongon~desire will be able to overcome circumstances
pinarsinta ni diartihon angkup sibolis~that desire was exploited by the devil
pinggol hita ndang mamorluhon hata~our ears do not need words
pinjil sian nagara nagara asing~different from other countries
pinomat unang di bahen pangkat~At least don't make it a status
pinsangpinsang mi di hadengganon hu~Your warning is for my good
pintor dalan dalan tabo modom~just go for a walk..., sleep well
pintu joro tuhan nunga tedak~the door of the temple of God has opened
pipi ho mora huting au~your face looks like my cat
pipi ho mora tambon lombu~your face looks like a cow's ass
pipi ho roa tudos hambing~your face is ugly like a goat
pipi ho tudos lombu lobangon~your face is like a toothless cow
pipi sabi roha sa lambok~his face is fierce, his heart is soft
pipi tata lagak jabutna mangela~His handsome face has a seductive mustache
pisang jambu salak sao pinasa~banana, guava, salak, sapodilla, jackfruit
pisang tohom laos ondol daina~Firm bananas really taste great
pistar bistok badia pasihar marsinondang~intelligent, intelligent, noble, shining, radiant
pitolot pen buku balobas panosa~pencil pen book ruler eraser
pitu pulu lima ribu halak~seventy-five thousand people
poda ina tu pangoli boruboru~mother's advice to the bride
poda jolma matua tu pangoli~parents' advice to the bride and groom
podoman on bias dohot au~This mattress is bored with me
pompar sian ompung doli ama~descended from my father's grandfather
ponggol dope marsiajar au hasian~I'm still learning, darling
porhis ni di dege gaja~The ant was stepped on by the elephant
porlak on hembang gok diri~This garden is in full bloom
porlak on hembang gok suga~this garden blooms full of thorns
porlu ubat na tolap asi~I need effective medicine, dear
porludo mangaramoti hagompison mula poso~the importance of maintaining health from an early age
porot i bona ni hau~stuck in a tree
porseama ala sasudena boi dibolus~believe that everything can be overcome
porseama isi halibutongan dungkon udan~believe me... there is a rainbow after the rain
porseama tinompa tuhan apala jeges~believe me God's creation is so beautiful
porseama tuhan naeng mangurupi ho~believe God will help you
portibi ate punam ondeng pedan~The world is not just yours, friend
portibi on mangahap punam sadasa~this world feels like your own
portibi, hasiangan on naeng mamburai~this earth will curse
pos ni roha ndang munggil~Batak's unwavering faith
poto rap dohot hp angan~take a photo together with your cellphone
pudi on mambahen hita lomos~This ending makes us anxious
pudun mangolu pudun mangolu sinta~the snare of love
pudun parpunguan di manjomaki marnipi~build together to achieve dreams
puji ma tuhan sang raja~praise God, the king
puji tuhan baritana burjuburju ondeng~thank God he is fine
pukul onom manogot hami marpungu~at six in the morning we gathered
pulo samosir tailihon dohot lapatan~Pulo Samosir lyrics and meaning
pulo samosir tailihon dohot lapatanan~Pulo Samosir lyrics and translation
puna anak parbue di loak~got a minion on moron
puna dongan mansam bahenbahenan sa~have friends like him
puna dongan songon haurakon baoa~have a friend like a man's penis
puna hepeng imbaru diranap hita~we have new money to look at
puna utokutok alai ndada digunahon~have a brain but don't use it
pungkul nasa on nari mangadangi~At this hour, I'm still running around
pungkul sadia ho mulak deang~what time do you come home lady
pungkul sadia mulak maningkir amang~What time do you come home to mourn?
pungkul sadia mulak sian hauma~what time do you come home from the field?
punguan bintang manorangi roha hu~the combination of stars lights up my heart
punguan godang jolma ansiat parolopolopon~a gathering of many people as a celebration
punguan ni hatahata au sonang~Batak dictionary. I am happy
punguan ni hatahata pasisir sibolga~Sibolga coastal language dictionary
punguan ni hatahata simalungun pungu~Complete Simalungun dictionary
punjung ditonga sagang sa borngin~alone in the silence of the night
pusaka ndang dope hu targadis~I haven't sold the heirloom yet
pusat sa ingkon mangan mangan~The point is you have to eat
pusat sian patik tu sada~the essence of the first commandment
pusatna sihol au dohot mi~Basically I miss you
pusatna sihol au rap ho~Basically I miss you
pusok mi mussat tu tanggurung~Your navel moves to your back
pusuk hau semara haadongon suasana~spruce tree tops the atmosphere
ra alai longa galas ondeng~want but just half a glass
ra ama nari marguna pidongna~Do you want the bird to still function?
ra annon hu matehon ni~I'll turn it off later
ra ari rea di margusting~I want to trim the holidays
ra boahon au gonti nomor~want to tell me to change the number
ra borhat pungkul sadia tokke~What time do you want to leave boss??
ra di arbas sa ho~I want to get rid of you
ra diboan hudia bohihu annon~Where do I want to take my face next?
ra diboan hudia nagara on~Where do you want to take this country?
ra dipeakhon idia borua bagak~Where do you want to put it, beautiful girl
ra do ho di dahop~do you want to be hugged?
ra do mengendos dohot hu~do you want to have sex with me?
ra dok sadasa aha dipandokoni~what do you want to say yourself?
ra ho ro tu son~want you to come here
ra ibana managihon di ahu~I want him to share it with me
ra lao ndang isi pamasuhon~I want to leave without any income
ra mangalului sa sulang indahan~want to find a bite of rice
ra manopot borua sa ni~I want to meet that girl
ra manuhor balanjo bahen lebaran~want to shop for Eid
ra mardomu tu jabu hu~want to join my house?
ra mardongan dohot hu ndada~want to be friends with me or not?
ra mardongan rampak au ndada~do you want to be friends with me?
ra margareja markongsi rap hami~want to worship, fellowship with us.
ra markobun di jabu sambola~I want to garden next door
ra marlaoan tu inganan tagas~I want to travel to my dream place
ra meam bal muse do~do you want to play football again?
ra ndada karejo ansiat hadameon~whether you want to work as a security guard
ra pasohot anakkonna na baea~wants to marry off his son
ra pasohot anakkonna na parompuan~wants to marry off his daughter
ra sadia hulehon rap ho~how much do I want to give you?
ra sohot au dohot angkangmi~I want to marry your sister
ra tagi utang na nabodari~I want to collect last night's debt
ra tongos masihol alai ditulak~I wanted to send my miss but it was rejected
ra tu bondar di aha~what are you going to the ditch for?
ra tuhor hapit jambulan au~I want to buy my hair clip
ra tujabu ama baliksa udan~I wanted to go to my father's house but it was raining
ra ulu ho hu ponsahon~I want to break your head
radot burjuburju haporseaon hu olo~Take good care of my trust, okay?
radot denggan denggan nanaeng posoposona~take good care of the future baby
radot mata mi annon duruk~Keep your eyes peeled or you'll fall
radot rohami tuau olo asi~guard your heart for me, darling
radoti huting ai tunggal luhut~Keep all male cats
radoti jo siholmu rampak hu~save your longing for me first
ragam nda so ula mu~your work is not silent
rajana tongosan hatop taru pulo~the king of fast delivery between islands
rajuman anak na so marina~the fortune of an orphan
rajuman naung isi na otur~someone has already arranged the sustenance
rambutan saok sun i parade~Fried rambutan is ready to be served
ramot ari minggu sian bianghu~Happy Sunday from my dog
ramot asi ginjang hananaek tohonanna~congratulations dear on your promotion
ramot borngin asi nipihon au~good night darling dream of me
ramot borngin ni pangalului rongkap~Good evening matchmakers
ramot dalan aleale mengadap tuhan~Goodbye friend facing God
ramot dalan anggiat pangurupion marminggu~good luck good deeds of worship
ramot dalan dohot ramot marsiulaon~good luck and good work
ramot dalan tondimi olo amang~Goodbye your soul, sir
ramot dua pulu taon parbagason~happy twenty years of marriage
ramot ginjang hamonangan sa indonesia~congratulations on Indonesia's victory
ramot ginjang hatutubu baoa parjolona~congratulations on the birth of your first son
ramot ginjang herbang imbaru sa~congratulations on your new title
ramot humationg mirdong mulak angkang~happy dizziness again brother
ramot humationg mirdong mulak bagak~Happy dizzy and beautiful again
ramot mandalani ngolu imbaru hamuna~good luck with your new life
ramot mandalani ngolu imbaru holi~good luck with your new life bone
ramot mandalani ngolu imbaru olo~good luck with your new life
ramot mandalani ngolu imbaru sohot~Happy new married life
ramot mangalap gogo.. nunga borngin~Have a good rest... it's late
ramot mangatim basabasa sian tuhan~Enjoy the gift from God
ramot mangatim sipanganon panganon on~Enjoy this food dish
ramot mangingani jabu imbaru da~congratulations on settling into your new house
ramot manogot angkup angkup luhut~good morning all colleagues
ramot manogot di ni pardosa~good morning to sinners
ramot manogot di tondi parungkil~good morning to the warrior soul
ramot manogot hipas ma luhut~good morning be healthy everyone
ramot manogot jolma na huhasiholi~good morning the person I miss
ramot manogot ni pangalului rajuman~good morning fortune seekers
ramot marganda umur angkang hu~Congratulations on getting older my brother
ramot marganda umur damang hu~Congratulations on getting older my father
ramot marsiulaon mulak angkang hu~good luck with your return, my brother
ramot mauli bulung anggiat sonang~good luck, may it last forever
ramot nangkok bonton daging dongan~good luck gaining weight friends
ramot pangsiun huhut hipas tongtong~Happy retirement and always be healthy
ramot ro di pustaha soara~welcome to the sound library
ramot ro dohot ramot marlumba~welcome and have fun competing
ramot sonang rap baoa asing~happy happiness with other guys
ramot ulak taon amangamang paduahon~happy second birthday husband
ramot ulak taon angkang asi~Happy birthday, brother Grace
ramot ulak taon jolma balga~happy birthday great man
ramot ulak taon ompung doli~happy birthday grandpa
rampak au manghasiholi mi haholonganku~I miss you my beloved
rampak jolma asing ho balos~with other people you reply
rampak marga aha na tongon~What surname is suitable?
rampak sajo ma molo songoni~it's the same then
ramun dohot unang i torusson~prohibited and should not be continued
rap amangamang mandalani parao tondong~together with my husband live the family ark
rap dolidoli mangaramoti parsadaan hasadaon~together with the youth maintain unity
rap mamungka masarakat na marabahan~together to build a cultured society
rap on hami boahon ala~We hereby inform you that
rap sarupa hita pature huta~together we will improve the village
rap sauduran tu parsadaan indonesia~together with a group for Indonesian unity
raphon ho mambahen ahu sonang~being with you makes me happy
rasip haholomon ditoru bara langit~eradicate darkness under the sky
raterate alani di gotaphon boruboru~upset because a woman dumped him
renges loni modom anak on~This child sleeps soundly
renges sahali modom anak on~This child slept very soundly
renta ale na marlae on~It's compact, those of us who are in law
rias on bunga holong hu~This matchstick tree is the rose of my love
ribak luhut unang asi lambas~tear it all apart, don't let it loose
ribak luhut unang lehon lambas~Tear it all off, don't let it loose
rimas rimas hian rampak au~very angry with me
rimrim pupus ni tondihu tarasi~You're welcome, my beloved
ringgas giot ma di marsiajar~be diligent and diligent in studying
ringgas giot ma ho gareja~be diligent, be diligent in the church
ringgas olahraga dohot mangaso ris~exercise diligently and get enough rest
ringkot mida jolma tudos ni~it's funny to see people like that
ringkot sahali ho andora hombang~it's so cute you're flat chested
ringkot sahali ho tarus hombang~so cute you flat breasts
ripas ho tarhapit ni tangan~you're bound to get caught in that hand
ripas ma bonana hu dongkon~I'm just dying to say it
ris tuhan ansiat sipargogo au~God is enough as my helper
risi loni jolma sada on~This person is rude at times
ro dohot hundulma dohot hu~come and sit with me
ro ma hamuna tu son~come here
ro tu son hita endat~let's suck it up
ro tu son hita mangana~let's watch
ro tu son hita markobun~let's garden
ro tu son hita marmusik~let's make music
ro tu son hita marsonang~let's relax
ro tu son hita martarombo~let's talk
ro tu son hita rimang~let's see
ro tu son humutur rap~let's rock together
ro tu son mangan napuran~let's eat betel
ro tu son mangan tondong~let's eat family
ro tu son mardame ondeng~let's just make peace
ro tu son marende iboto~let's sing brother
ro tu son ontap pambalian~let's prevent transmission
ro tu son tuhor bumbu~let's buy spices
ro tujabu asa lumba hita~Come home and let us compete
ro tuson hita rap mandulo~let's visit together
ro tuson marende malaiu dongan~Let's sing Malay, friends
roa pipi tudos tambon babi~ugly face like a pig's butt
robo annon inganan modom ho~your bed will collapse
robus sondot sampulu lima minut~boil for fifteen minutes
rodina au giot mangaluahon diri~so I want to run away
rodina au lupa sarana sonang~So I forgot how to be happy
rodina au na di salahon~so I'm the one to blame
rodina bangkit pangimbung di marsinta~so that the desire to make love arises
rodina das sangga on digoari~so until now it is named
rodina ho lam mamuji tuhan~so that you praise God even more
rodina raja sorha mangutus anakna~so the king of Rahat sent his son
roha dohot pikkiran ndada ampit~heart and mind are not in harmony
roha gomos ma ho bongak~have a strong heart, you are great
roha hu tulus mambakbak mi~My heart is willing to let you go
roha na antus mandasing gora~a heart that understands weighing matters
roha on longo sopola ho~This heart is lonely without you
roha on mandokhon goar mi~This heart calls your name
roha on naung buangga saep~This heart is too patient
roha roha annon i sulik~Be careful, you'll be kidnapped
roha roha godang tangkang nuaeng~Be careful, there are lots of thieves now
roha roha solok pinsur sahali~be careful of very sharp turns
roha roha tu tompur lanok~Be careful of hitting flies
roha tarae lambang sopola dirim~My heart feels empty without you
roha tarae lambang sopola ho~My heart feels empty without you
rohahi holan punam saripehu tarsinta~My heart only belongs to you my beloved wife
rohahi ndang tupa au manghaholongimu~I feel like I can't possibly love you
rohana holan modom marmodoman ondeng~his only wish was to lie down and sleep
roma hita marsonang las roha~let's have fun
roma manjujui roha tu tuhan~let's turn our hearts to God
rongkap na ndang ebat mardomu~a soul mate who has never met
rongkap sa na ndada isi~his soul mate doesn't exist
roti sun di i patupa~the bread is ready to be served
ruang na dibongoti manang diingani~a space inhabited or inhabited
ruang na dibongoti manang diingani~a space lived in or occupied
ruangna imbar tabo loni pe~the hole is different and delicious
ruasna ndada ra karejo muse~its members don't want to work anymore
rujiruji hagogoon tedak dohot sihabunian~calculation of open and hidden forces
rumang jolma andorang dabu holong~image of people in love
rumar rumar tambon mi rumar~haram haram your ass is haram
rundinghon dohot pedan dohot gurum~discuss it with your friends and teachers
rundut luhut jadina bonsir hunsi~It all got tangled because of the key
rundut sahali ngolu au on~My life is very complicated
rura on angkup tihas denggan~this valley by good nature
sa naeng sangajo pajogalhon soarana~se will deliberately raise his voice
sa ndada manjalo barang tihas~they don't accept used goods
sa tudos dohot pangaluaran ngolu~comparable to living expenses
sa tudos dohot pangaluaran ngoluhu~comparable to my life's expenses
saae begu na sun manoro~feels like a ghost ready to pounce
sabam au adong dope karejoan~be patient, I still have work to do
sabarma hepeng hu nari hurang~be patient, I still don't have enough money
sabarma hepeng hu nari lombang~be patient, my money is still in short supply
sabiji bunga na tudos dirim~a flower that resembles you
sabiji panggogo di manubuhon halongangan~a booster to grow the magic
saboi au naeng pasonanghon mi~As much as I can, I will make you happy
saburjuna au mandao sian hamuna~I'd better stay away from you guys
sada aropan anggiat rongkap hita~one hope that our soul mate
sada balanga gok marsuhat balga~one full large cauldron
sada horong tutur sada marga~one group of relatives of one clan
sada jolma na parumbukhon diri~one person who adapts
sada manghobas disusun mangargahon manjumpanghon~something sort out arranged offers find
sada margana ibana rampak au~He shares the same surname as me
sada minut ondeng ndada boi~just one minute won't do
sada na tarompas sian langit~something fell from the sky
sada sadado bingkas na denggan~the only good basis
sada sungkunsungkun habir di ho~one question, depends on you
sada taon salpu obukhu jempek~one year ago my hair was short
sada uluan sada muse katua~one commander and one chief
sadari mangan baoang sada kilo~eat one kilo of onions a day
sadasa dohot tondi na benget~yourself with a steadfast spirit
sadasa ndada mambahen ahu retes~alone doesn't make me fragile
sadia arga baoang longa kilo~how much does half a kilo of onions cost
sadia arga baoang sada kilo~how much does one kilo of onions cost
sadia arga bibi sada ihur~how much does one duck cost?
sadia arga boli sa holong~how much is the dowry price darling?
sadia argana aha boi hurang~how much does it cost? could it be less?
sadia boli na ho pangido~how much dowry do you ask for?
sadia godang simpang opat i~how many intersections in
sadia hepeng huar barang sa~how much does it cost to unload the goods?
sadia ho gadis arga lasiak~how much do you sell chilies for?
sadia ho garar bahen gararan~how much did you pay for the deposit
sadia ihur hambing dihandang ni~how many goats are in that pen?
sadia leleng dipainte panongosan sa~how long do you wait for delivery?
sadia na ingkon au punguhon~how much should I collect
sadihari ala nari pe ondeng~whenever the cause is still there
sadihari ateate on naeng tarbalos~when will this feeling be reciprocated
sadihari au boi mardomu ho~when can I meet you
sadihari boi au arihon ho~when can I have you
sadihari di magohon sihol on~When will this longing disappear?
sadihari hamuna tolap pasidunghon on~When will you be able to finish this?
sadihari hita buat janggola muse~when will we take the jambak again?
sadihari hita topot angkang hita~when do we propose to our sister?
sadihari hita topoti hamlet mi~When will we meet your boyfriend?
sadihari hita tu ganaganaan muse~when will we go to idols again?
sadihari ho angkat sian godung~when did you jump from the building
sadihari ho isi tingki lambas~when do you have free time?
sadihari ho mandapothon ari pakansi~When do you get holidays?
sadihari hosing tu parsamean hamuna~When are you going back to your dorm?
sadihari lao tu pulo ganaganaan~when are you going to the island of the idols?
sadihari ma sun rumang on~when will this picture be ready?
sadihari naeng di buat hepengna~when will the money be taken?
sadihari olo on eme digotil~When will this rice be harvested?
sadihari tahina ho olihon ibana~When do you plan to marry him?
sadihari ulaon hita diolopi tondong~when our party is approved by the family
sae manaroso au angkup mombut~finished attacking me and shrank
saema au asi dohot parompuan~It's enough that I love women
saep anaha lojam naeng targarar~Be patient, my child, your tiredness will be rewarded
saep dapotmu sa ibana annon~Can't wait to see him later
saep dongan asal ngoluna torus~Be patient, friend, as long as you live on
saep holong haduan imbaru jumpa~patient love. I'll see you the day after tomorrow
saep jolma saep tambonna mamak~patient people have wide buttocks
saep ma unang buru buru~Be patient, don't rush
saep naeng hot tarbereng jeges~Patience will still look beautiful
saep sipata ndada pasidunghon masala~Patience sometimes doesn't solve the problem
sahalak ina andorang manuhor situhoron~a mother is shopping
sahalak lumamglumamg na so marina~an orphan
sahalak na holan tongtong marungutungut~someone who just always grumbles
sahalak panurat torsa sopola goar~an anonymous story writer
sahali ho sahiti alom au~once you hurt your opponent me
sahali marnida dohot panailian mardosdos~one look at it with a level gaze
sahali muse anju ginjang pangalahohu~once again sorry for my behavior
sahat di simalungun? anggiat tua~Arriving at Simalungun, good luck
sahata dohot saroha hamuna laos~you are of one mind and one mind
sahatma tuhan di pusuk birakbirak~God arrived at the peak of anger
sahatma tuhan di pusuk birakbirakna~God arrived at the peak of his anger
sahatop sa au tu angkang~I'll go to my sister as soon as possible
sahatopna anggo boi angkang hu~as soon as possible, my brother
sahatopna dipaulak unang ditiopi leleng~return it as soon as possible, don't hold it for long
sahatopna ma hita oroan da~Let's get engaged as soon as possible
sahuta alai ndada hea jumpa~in the same village but never met
sai anggiat ma di bulan~so hopefully in the month
sai mardalan da motor sedan~So walk the instructions to determine the sedan
sai tibu balga anak hu~grow up quickly my child
sai tibu ho hot ripe~hurry up and get married
sai tibu ho jumpangi au~hurry up and meet me
sai tibu ho mardongan saripe~hurry up and get married
sai tibu modom nunga borngin~hurry up and sleep, it's late
sai tibu naung daldal au~Hurry up, I'm sour
sai unang asal puas hata~so don't just say the word
sala mandodo saleleng on i~I've been wrong all this time. in
sala sada bingkasna adong ma~one of the reasons is
sala sada tortor jolma batak~one of the Batak people's dances
salado au mangalongangi pardijabu jolma~Am I wrong to admire someone's wife?
salahu na mambahen ho mabugang~It's my fault that you got hurt
salahu nunga mambahen ho mabugang~It was my fault that you were hurt
salaksakna mamak luhut boasa olo~his forehead is all wide. I wonder why
salam tanda ma molo songoni~nice to meet you then
salamat ro i emper au~welcome to my homepage
salaoar au mago i jomuran~My drawstring got lost on the clothesline
sali hepeng ho saratus ribu~borrow your money one hundred thousand
sali kareta di ari saptu~borrow a train for Saturday
sali kareta di pudi onan~borrow a train for the weekend
salpu buhai mangaligi sian an~then start checking from there
salpu diloplophon tu bagas lamari~then put it in the cupboard
salpu ro hadameon dohot hadameon~then comes peace and tranquility
salpu tarsorang ma indonesia mardeka~Then an independent Indonesia was born
salua taruli tuptup marsinondang bagas~after getting a brilliant decision in
samak idaonhu mata ni rara~I vaguely saw that his eyes were red
samansam lintong metmet na menak~a kind of quiet little lake
sambal timbil atim ubat bangkin~The most delicious chili sauce for anxiety
samponggol bulan i ellep borngin~a piece of moon in the dim night
sandok ruas badanna ihut morot~all his body parts move
sang adong dope ulahonon mi~You still have work to do
sang maga pandaoni nunga jonok~the great healer is near
sang raja pala tarlibas rohana~The king was very upset
sang sipalua pande ramot portibi~the savior of the world
sangga andorang manghatahatai dohot siseanna~while talking to his students
sangga ho gabe ulina siingoton~when you become a sweet memory
sangga ho repot dohot banuam~when you are busy with your world
sangga huguret sura, pustaha on~when I wrote this letter
sangga on jabu mulak longo~At this time the house was empty
sangga parpudi hu golom tanganmu~the last time I held your hand
sangga sa hita di borontak~it's time for us to rebel
sangga sa mangebati kota medan~It's time to visit Medan city
sanggak totong mamereng ibana hatotong~surprised to see him surprised
sangkambiur bunga na tudos dirim~a flower that resembles you
sangkaphu ina ra manduda eme~I mean, mother wants to pound rice
sangsi au biar ndada malua~I was hesitant, afraid I wouldn't pass
santabi anggo nari tar gurgar~Sorry if it's still a bit messy
santabi asi nantuari au hapodoman~Sorry darling yesterday I fell asleep
santabi ate hami ginjang roha~sorry, we're not arrogant
santabi au ndada antus bahasam~sorry I don't understand your language
santabi au sura jolma asing~sorry, I thought it was someone else
santabi handehande ise na hatinggalan~sorry, who missed the scarf?
santabi holan boi manangianghon ondeng~sorry, I can only pray
santabi isi roha na hujaga~sorry, I have a heart to guard
santabi jo loja di dalan~If you'll excuse me, I'm tired on the road
santabi jolma bongak ra bolus~Excuse me, handsome guy wants to pass by
santabi ndada boi lobi pungu~sorry can't be more complete
santabi ndang dope tang hatana~sorry the language is not perfect
santabi pa hajungkaton anak mi~I'm sorry for your child's mischief
santabi pedan nabodari au hapodoman~Sorry friends, I fell asleep last night
santokin tompas rumang di adopanhu~Suddenly the image in front of me collapsed
saonari nunga lele au diparjalangan~Now I've thrown me overseas
saong hudon meam anak boru~princess toy pot hood
saotik hian isi panganon on~this food contains very little
saotik loja alai unang mangande~a little tired but don't give up
saotik muse dabu tu toru~down a little more
saotik otik la boi do~a little bit usually
sapasang bonang risi na marganjang~a pair of coarse, elongated threads
sapata molo ndada mandohoti uhum~consequences if you don't follow the rules
sara imbaru na pala tolap~a very powerful new way
sara mambuat sa amang guru~how to make it sir
sara mamereng ibana sirsir loni~how to see it right next time
sara mi joujou goar hu~the way you call my name
sara tartabo bahen pangali diri~the best way to cool off
sarahu mida imbar dalanmu mida~The way I see is different from the way you see
saribu jolma matua boi marnipi~a thousand old people can dream
sarima na nimmu denggan asi~Look for what you think is good, dear
saringan ni ulaon do tangiang~Sift the party or pray
saripehu andorang mangalului bulung napuran~my wife is looking for betel leaves
sarita sa isi dua tanga~There are two histories, bastard
saroha sapanghilalaan ingkon masi mangondihon~one heart, one feeling, must protect each other
sarupa au torus olo hiltung~with me and round
sarupa do tulang pe kariting~it's the same uncle is also curly
sarupa ise pe ido jolmana~with whoever the person is
sarupa sa luhut ido jolmana~it's the same as all humans
sarupa tudos mangurupi panangga tarhapit~just like helping a stuck dog
sasahalak na holan tongtong marungutungut~someone who just always grumbles
sasintongna au adong ma sahalak~actually I am one
sasintongna au giot manghajongjonghon ae~Actually I want to express my feelings
sasintongna au hasianna rampak ho~I actually love you
sasintongna au pasidinghon reherehe sa~actually I avoided his teasing
sasintongna ho holan lomo edang~actually you just like traveling
sasintongna parbogason hita on aha~What exactly is our relationship?
sasude banua dohot langit gok~all the continents and the sky is full
sasude na denggan mangangkupi amang~all good things be with you, father
sasude na ho hata porso~everything you say is a lie
sasude na isi di lambung~everything around
sasudena alani holong sopola tarlobian~everything is because of love without exception
sasudena ni ndang ho arihon~you don't have all of that
satangkirisap mamolus tu tingki salpu~momentarily flashed into the past
satolop dohot, rap, raphon pandapot~agree with the proposal
satonga tondihu tartanom rap dainangi~half of my soul is buried with my mother
satutuna ateate hu pala hansur~In fact, I feel very devastated
satutuna au pala manghaholongimu ho~actually I really love you
satutuna molo ho ndada muba~indeed, if you do not repent
saudutna luhut bumbu hita palamot~Next, we grind all the spices
saut anggo ido urupi dianju~so if that's the case, please understand
saut au alusna ni ondeng~so I just answered that
saut beha hirahira ditaon ho~So how do you think you feel?
saut bilolangon au dijou holong~so nervous I'm called darling,
saut boasa leleng loni mangalap~so why does it take so long to pick up?
saut dibahen hudia dia masalana~So wherever the problem goes, it's created
saut geok au rampak ho~so I'm amused by you
saut hipas sa pat mi~so your feet are healthy
saut ingkon hualusi aha hape~So what should I answer?
saut jolma unang godang morongorong~so people don't complain too much
saut lonsam sadia inang baju~So how many in total, auntie?
saut manisia unang lomo late~so humans should not be jealous
saut nari udan di an~so it's still raining there
saut ni ate hamlet mi~So it's not your boyfriend
saut panimpuli sa adong ma~so the conclusion is
saut ra mengkel mida leakmu~so I want to laugh at your behavior
saut sadia lonsam arga sa~so what is the total price?
saut sonari hita gabe dongan~so now we are friends
saut taralimos au diri mi~so I imagine you
saut taringot rampak nahinan meme~So I remember my late mother
saut tarmali tondi mida tolor~So it's traumatizing to see eggs
sendor ondeng ndada pangke santan~just cendol, don't use coconut milk
si lindung pe nga mardandi~the protector was already sulking
si titi golang golang pangarahutna~the titi bracelet holds the bracelet
siaginon dohot haporsukon nasida manimbuknimbuk~their suffering and misery increased.
siahapon mi di ranto damang~Your fate is overseas, son
siahapon ndada denggan anak ranto~the bad luck of overseas children
sian burukburuk sidegeon pat anakna~from the footsteps of his children's feet
sian di suman mommon bodat~rather than looking like monkey snot
sian jambi dang adong dope~from Jambi city there are still none
sian lubuk roha hu on~from the bottom of my heart
sian lubuk roha na bagas~from the bottom of my heart
sian manogot ngangaetan pat hu~My feet have been sore since morning
sian meja marsiajar sondot podoman~from the study table to the bed
sian metmet au di kalimantan~I've been in Kalimantan since I was little
sian omo karejo gogo mangaradoti~from the results of hard work managing
siat ma luhut na pangali~everything you wish for comes true
siboanon sa giot modom ondeng~Innately he just wants to sleep
sibuk aha na hamuna luslus~what meat do you grill
siding ho diri di san~Get out of there yourself
siharharan lapatanna punguan ni hatahata~what you want to decipher means "Batak" in the dictionary
sihol alai daina gogot manatahon~I miss you but it's hard to say
sihol na ndang marali, maralus~unrequited longing
sihol on ndang ebat mintop~This longing never goes away
sihol sahali lompalompa inonghu tarasi~I really miss my beloved mother's cooking
sihol suasana di ginjang ombun~miss the atmosphere above the clouds
siholhu sungkot holang dohot tingki~My longing is blocked by distance and time
siholna marmeam rap hamuna anaha~I miss playing with you my son
siingoton ndada laos pa di~memories will never be forgotten, right?
siingoton tarlengket raphon ho kedanhu~the most beautiful memories with you my friend
sikkolape ingkon mangalehon parsiajaran natingkos~Schools must also provide quality education
silehonlehon ndada naeng mangorui hamoraonmu~Zakat will not reduce your wealth
silom ido panogu bagas hangoluan~Islam is a guide in life
silonging holi borngin jumahat hape~as quiet as a Friday night apparently
simalolonghi ndang dope giot modom~my eyes don't want to sleep yet
simangunsong sian dia hamuna ito~simangunsong where are you from?
simor na tartaon tudos marjogal~suppressed emotions seem to harden
sinamago rundut na jotjot manjadi~complicated problems that often occur
sintahi mintop di hadungon kode~My love is stuck at the end of the canteen
sintahi tarsongon marata sopola sira~My love is like a vegetable without salt
sintahi tu ho satulus rohahi~My love for you is as sincere as my heart
sintai au dohot bonarna rohami~love me with all your heart
sintai parkarejoanmu songonna jahoba manghaholongimu~love your work as God loves you
sintana anak batak ni bontor~Batak children's love is sincere
sintana jolma batak ni bontor~Batak people's love is sincere
sintap hatigoran na ho arihon~the extent of your honesty
sintasintahu boi marrongkap dohot ho~My dream is to be side by side with you
sintong dohot sungkana alai ambung~true and awkward but light
sintong hata angkang sasintongna ondeng~That's right, brother, it's only natural
sintong huhut marsurasura martapian rap~right, while imagining bathing together
sip boasa huroha baba mi~Shut up, why does your mouth look like that?
sip hamuna annon hu puntarhon~I'll break your silence later
sipadot sa di dia dainang~Where's the broom, Mama?
sipadot tangan panesa aek mata~tear-wiping handkerchief
sipanganon na rade tes dali~serving milk tea
siparbagaon mi holan aek mata~Your mainstay is only tears
sipareakan ho rampak au aha~what is your goal with me?
sipargogo hu dohot panuturi hu~my helper and my defender
sipata longang roha mida idaonhu~sometimes it's surprising to see
sipata olo tudos aili luhut~sometimes it's like all wild boars
sipata tatap tu son tuhan~sometimes look here God
siregar sian dia hamu ito~Siregar clan, where are you from?
sirsir i tingki ngalina udan~right when it's cold and rainy
sirsir ni dongan au satolop~That's right, friend, I agree
sisik ho lemes hian olo~your skin is really smooth, isn't it?
situak natonggi di anak hipas~honey for healthy children
situak natonggi di anak pistar~honey for smart children
so au ho pollat pollat~Shut up, I'll step on your feet
so baba mi annon marmudar~Shut up and your mouth will bleed
so boruboru sibabi jalang apas~Shut up, disgusting bitch
so jo hupamate annon hamuna~Shut up, I'll turn it off later
soal bahasa batak pe saut~Batak language debate ensued
soal na rittik hu bereng~I saw a crazy debate
soara musik panghuling sihil gogo~the music sounded loud
soara papan na di antuk~the sound of the board being hit
soara poran barani mangalus abatabat~firm voice, brave to answer challenges
soara sinapang di kota medan~the sound of guns in the city of Medan
soaram buat au dabu holong~your voice makes me fall in love
soaram marpahu gogo saut sumbang~your voice is too loud to be discordant
sobu musem pangke bahasa batak~It's also fun to use Batak language
sodap sa parbue mangga ni~the mango fruit is delicious
sodap sa udang haithait ni~the prawns are delicious
sogir nandigan ho ndang balang~it's dangerous if you're unfaithful
sogo dohot manisia marrupa binatang~fed up with humans in animal form
sogo loni huhilala di roha~I feel sick in my heart
sogo loni roha on huhilala~I think I'm sick of it this time
sogo loni rohahi di ae~I feel sick in my heart
sogot udut muse nunga borngin~Tomorrow it will be evening again
soksok hian tu dolidoli pargabus~I'm really annoyed with lying men
soldadu isi uhum tangkas ditombom~in the army there are rules that are bound to be broken
solu sa pareakhon julu binanga~The canoe headed upstream of the river
somal hu holong sada huparsinta~I usually love one thing I want
somal jolma sa muse tete~Usually people are defecating
somalna au manalipon das manogot~usually I call until morning
somalna molo ra padalanhon hadengganon~Usually, if you want to do good
somalna paniroi nari marnonang jo~usually the supervisor still chats first
son au dege ulu ho~Here, I'll step on your head
son ho asa hu anju~Here, let me pet you
son hu ajari taktak dolok~Here I teach you mountain climbing
son hu lotak ulu mi~Here, I'll poke your head
son ma damang huhaol ho~I'm here to hug you
son meam tu kalas hu~Come and play in my class
son tuli tu lapo au~Come on, stop by my shop
sonang anak huhut pasiding parbadaan~happy children and avoid quarrels
sonang angkang songon dia parsorionmu~Be safe bro, how are you?
sonang bagas parbagason ruas tondong~happy in the marriage of family members
sonang dohot menak angkang saripe~safe and secure, brother and family
sonang hali, noli, loni biangku~my dog is happy
sonangma ho dohot na imbaru~be happy with the new one
sondot au dabu bagas dahopanmu~until I fall in your arms
sondot mambahen au ndang tahan~until I can't stand it
songik loni eol mi ido~Your style is disgusting
songon boruboru na tinodo roham~like the woman your heart has appointed
songon di langlang na holom~like in a dark wilderness
songon dia do anggim on~how is your sister?
songon dia do angkang on~how is this brother?
songon dia do di bagas~how is it inside?
songon dia do diujung ni~how does it end?
songon dia do ho ni~how are you?
songon dia do nada nai~what's the tone?
songon lali habang dohot sonang~like an eagle flying happily
songon na jago hubereng ho~it looks great to see you
songon soksok au sarupa ho~I'm a little annoyed with you
songon tolor di hadungon tambing~like an egg on the edge
songonima ma panangkasion sian au~that's my explanation
songonima panangkasion ali sian au~That's my brief explanation
songonima pidato au ari on~That's all my speech today
songonima sian hu jalo asi~That's all from me, thank you
songonna hita boto hajungkaton bajar~as we know juvenile delinquency
songonna ho ndang dope dungo~Looks like you haven't woken up yet
songonna ndada saut tu an~I don't think it's going there
songonon bahasa hita jolma batak~this is the language of our Batak people
songonon ma siahapon anak parompuan~this is the fate of girls
songonon ompung dolihu marbahasa batak~This is how my grandfather speaks Batak
songonon ompung dolihu marhatai batak~This is how my grandfather spoke Batak
songonsongonon nama namar kalimantan on~this is the way it is with this ex
songti rodina tu tingkat lima~powerful up to level five
sonsang pa raksa hajahaton sa~the knowledge of the crime will fade
sopola alimos alimos ho muse~without your shadow anymore
sopola isi abatabat boha pe~without any obstacles
sopola mida ise pe ibana~without seeing anyone
sopola morot saotikpe sian habangsana~without moving an inch from his throne
suba dialusi sungkunsungkun au on~try to answer my question
suba hita bahasa batak otikotik~Let's try the Batak language a little bit
suba ho torkan au ise~try to guess who I am
suba ho unang raterate torus~try not to get confused all the time
suba pintor rampak au hasian~try to be honest with me darling
subama di lobi pasangaphon au~try to appreciate me more
subama endehon pigapiga ende tuau~try singing some songs for me
subang mulak tagan dapot hepeng~Don't go home before you get the money
subang mulak tagan gabe mararta~never go home before you become rich
subang na ndada boi ditulak~taboo that cannot be rejected.
suda arang, so himpal bosi~After the charcoal is finished, the iron remains intact
suda holom tangkas rondangma tiur~After darkness comes light
suda i ronron hutu manuk~been attacked by chicken fleas
suda ibana tompur lua ibana~after that he hit and ran
suda mamasang sada anang ma~just installed something, I don't know
suda maningkir sian dia amang~Where did you come from, sir?
suda mara hita marmeam muse~After the epidemic we play again
suda mara hita meam muse~After the outbreak, we'll play again
suda on au tu an~I'm going there after this
suda on ma molo songoni~that's the end of it then
suda tonggi sopasopa dibalonghon lapatanan~After all, it's so sweet that the translation is thrown away
suda tonggi sopasopa i balonghon~When the sweetness is gone, the pulp is thrown out
sude jolma magigi mambereng ibana~everyone is disgusted to look at him
sude pamatanghon tarae mohop binahenna~My whole body felt hot
suhu politik ngalian mohop eta~the political temperature is hot and cold come on
sukkur jo imbulu bodat mi~Shave your armpit hair first
suman rampak ho ou ulina~looks like you, she's beautiful
sumbangan hepeng jolma marujung bagas~donations of money from people who died in
sumurung sian banjar bangku pudi~especially from the back row of seats
sun malala demi arga diri~ready to bend for the sake of self-esteem
sungguli dirihu na pala oto~realize that I am very stupid
sungkunhon di duhut na humutur~ask the swaying grass
sungutan na di botari kopi~reportedly in the afternoon coffee
suping ho na buat masihol~your smile makes me miss you
suping ho tarsongon rumondang bulan~your smile is like the moon
suping mi gabe bajur hu~Your smile, becomes my work..
suping mi salimut las hu~Your smile is my warm blanket
suping na jeges tarsongon sandu~a beautiful smile is like an addiction
suping na matua lobi mamatehon~the old smile was more deadly
suping tongtong asa tamba tonggi~Always smile to make it sweeter
supingan targombar i bohi hu~a smile spread across my face
supingma ditingki roha ho tarsahiti~smile when your heart hurts
supingna tonggi bahen au dia~his smile is sweet to me
surat hatorangan tano laos pangido~ask for a land certificate
surat sijahaon hita ua manambai~our reading list, please add...
surathon di inganan na pinatupa~write it in the space provided
surathon di inganan na ture~write it in the space provided
surathon tolu parkakas di martonun~Write down three tools for weaving
surathon tolu ulaula di martonun~Write down three tools for weaving
suru mulak unang dipaberengbereng ondeng~tell him to go home and not leave him alone
susa dungo ndang dope ho~It's hard for you to wake up yet
susa hian etongan maninga on~This math is difficult
susa marsiajar bahasa batak tarnata~It turns out it's hard to learn Batak language
susa ni diula ate nirasahon~Difficulty is done, not felt
susa sahali mangantusi sa totong~It's so hard to understand, I'm surprised.
susa sahali pe hatana diantusi~the language is hard to understand,
tabe baen tondong mi dihuta~Greetings to your family in your hometown
tabe bahen baion dohot hania~Greetings to pandan and dara
tabe dohot batak dohot hajegesonna~Greetings Batak and its beauty
tabe sian hami parhauma jogi~Greetings from us tough farmers
tabe tama au sian anakmi~My best regards from your son
tabe tama au sian anakmu~I salute you from your son
tabe tanda sian au donda~Greetings from me gracefully
tabo loni engkelmi dongan martenju~It's nice when you laugh, fighting friends
tabo loni na markato on~It's a good time telling this story
tabo nai dohot sambal andaliman~delicious yang and chili sauce, a type of fruit from a wild plant that grows on the mainland of Toba, North Sumatra
tabo sahali loguna di bege~the song is really nice to listen to
tabo sahali muse on dibege~This is nice to hear again
tabo sahali saut aspal na~it's really nice to make asphalt
tabo tarhira au mida ho~nice I think I see you
tabotabo daging musem godang hambolna~Body fat also has many benefits
tagan au tinodo ansiat ni~before I was appointed as
tagan porang nunga rurus sada~before the war one had died
tagion poda bahasa au tahina~language teaching bill I mean
tahihon dohot di inganan tartontu~plan and in a certain place
tahina beha on pardijabu sa~what do you mean, this is his wife
tahu na tarbahen sian dasardasar~dipper made from shell
tahuluk ragini ulos poti poti~checkered hat
tailihon ende lomo lomom tuhan~God's love for you song lyrics
tailihon ende somba ma jahoba~lyrics of the song worship God
tais pardalanan ngolu na hudalani~I've come a long way in life
tais sahali pardalanan pareakhon ho~it's a long way to go to you
tak ondok be tortorhon hosahu~the rhythm of every breath I take
tali na tarbahen sian hotang~rope made of rattan
talipon au naung ra dipamate~My phone is about to be turned off
talipon hu ndada isi huling~My phone doesn't ring
talu rampak boruboru koperasi haliang~lost to the traveling cooperative woman
tama tu ama sian hami~respect to our father
tamba bolak salaksak pardompahan on~increase the area of this bald forehead
tamba matua tamba godang dipikkirhon~The older you get, the more you think about it
tammat kuliah mamintor hita asi~straight away from college, we love you
tampak hurang hipas rampak dainangi~At the same time, my mother is not well
tanda molo isi nian ondeng~just know if you want it
tanda sa patu tu panjaja~a sign of submission to the invaders
tandai au anak jolma pogos~get to know me, a poor person's child
tang dohot nadumenggan sasara tihas~perfect and superior in nature
tang ibana ro di mangarimpashon~perfect he came to perfect
tanganhu hurang ganjang mandungdung mi~My arms are not long enough to reach you
tanggal matua ndang adong hepeng~old stairs no money
tanggal piga do ho boi~what date can you do it?
tangiang hami mangiringi halahoan mi~Our prayers accompany your departure
tangiang hami mangiringi langka ho~Our prayers accompany your steps
tangiang hamuna mansaima mandonganihu dison~Your prayers are with me here
tangiang ina mangiringi pardalanan hu~Mother's prayers accompany my journey
tangiang jolma denggan dialusi tuhan~God answers good people's prayers
tangiang pa au hatop mangeahi~I pray I catch up quickly
tangiang pa di pardalanan on~Pray for you on this journey
tangiang pambuha tagan manangihon jamita~opening prayer before listening to the sermon
tangiang pangondianon bagas parungkilon bagas~intercessory prayer in deep struggles
tangiang tungtung sijulejule dolidoli namarbaju~Closing prayer for the youth gathering
tangianghon ma pedan mi on~pray for your friend
tangiangmu ina mangiringi pardalanan hu~Your prayers, mother, accompany my journey
tangiangni ina mangiringi pardalanan hu~Mother's prayers accompany my journey
tangkas hu parbadiai goarmu damang~I will surely glorify your name, father
tangkas isi saotik ae siholmu~there must be a little feeling of missing you
tangkas roha dohot tondim menak~surely your heart and soul will be at peace
tano na lomak dohot jeges~fertile and beautiful land
tano ompung boru sijolojolo tubu~ancestral land
tar asing anggi sada on~This younger sibling is a bit different
tar susa anggo tu an~it's a bit difficult to get there
tarae loja rampak sude on~I feel tired of all this
tarae longo ngoluhu sopola ho~My life feels lonely without you
taralimos giot anak baju ulos~Imagine wanting a ulos shirt
tarbahen sian gota damar damar~made from resin resin
tarbali sian ina tu anak~transmitted from mother to child
tarbereng hurang pistar ho dongan~You don't look very good, friend
tarbereng nariting alai lambok rohana~looks fierce but is soft at heart
tarbereng nariting alai rohana lambok~looks fierce but his heart is soft
tarbortik hata sihol bagas tangianghi~the word longing came to mind in my prayer
tardapot aropan di hu bolusi~there is hope for me to get through
tardapot pigapiga parbue tambing horbo~there are several buffalo horns,
targadap i ginjang sage mahiang~lying on dry straw
targasip i huta pangolat hampung~trapped in the village boundary area
tarhilala loja di ari on~quite tired today
tarhira itohu on naung hepeng~Looks like my brother already has money
tarhirim au mida hamuna dua~I'm disappointed to see you two
tarhurim ndada muse raphon ho~hope not to be with you anymore
tarida jolma rittik hu ae~I think he looks crazy
tarida omar dohot ndang margolle~looking confused and helpless
taringot au naeng parjuanganmu damang~I remember your struggle, father
taringot sihol i parbolatan, partalpakan~remembering longing at the border
tarlobi hian elekelek santabi au~First of all, I apologize
tarmangan dongan mandilat tijur sadasa~eaten by friends, licking their own saliva
tarnata dang satabo na husurasurahon~Turns out it wasn't as good as I imagined
tarnata gogot di maninggalhon mi~It turns out it's hard to leave you
tarnata luhut rampak ondeng pargabus~Turns out they're all liars
tarnata nasida basar dohot pantun~they turned out to be friendly and polite
tarnata ndang dohar au goki~Turns out I couldn't fulfill it
tarpuji raja kristus saleleng lelengna~blessed is the king christ forever and ever
tarpusa batin hita mamereng ibana~our minds are tormented to see it
tarpusa batin hita mida ni~our minds are tormented to see that
tarrujak sambilu ngotngot roha mabugang~stabbed and painfully hurt
tarsongon luslus tais sian api~like being grilled away from the fire.
tarsor borngin on tarae ngali~It feels cold tonight
tarsurasura au torus ho olo~I keep imagining you, okay?
tarugi bulungna di pinalolo sipadot~stick the leaves to make a broom
tarullus alogo di usa udan~blown by the wind and washed by the rain
tarullus imbus alogo i dalan~blown by the wind on the street
tata jalo asi ginjang sasudena~Dad, thank you for everything
tatap ma au sisean on~Look at me, this student
tatapan ho mambahen ahu mansut~your gaze makes me melt
tealna ho alai anang ma~How arrogant of you, even though... I don't know
tenggen hinan asa daging ambung~Get drunk first so your body will lighten up
tihas ho ni tudos bagudung~Your nature is like a rat
tilliki ma gombar serep on~Look at the picture below
timbil ndada unang baen ago~At least don't make it difficult
tingki boi di husor mulak~time can be turned back
tingki holan ida sian hadadao~just look from a distance
tingki marende ni diharat huting~while singing it was bitten by a cat
tingki ni au pala ngalian~I was very cold at that time
tingki on sipata ndada dirimpu~This time is sometimes unexpected
tingki salpu na gok siaginon~a past full of suffering
tingkina modom on nunga borngin~it's time to sleep, it's late
tiop ma tiang i kedan~Hold on to that pole, friend
tipu ma tangan hu on~I'm cheating my hand
tiroi jo marhatai mi ni~explain what you're talking about first
tiruna pautanghon meaman tu pedan~for example lending toys to friends
titi marangkup manang tintin marangkup~mixed titi or friendship ring
tiur sagi parhorasan bangso bangso~light for the salvation of the nation
tiurma mataniari agan holan tokkin~let the sun shine, even if only for a moment
tiurma tongtong bagas ngolu hita~always be light in our lives
tois dia antus ae marsala~no one understands guilt
tois dohot mangahap mangarihon sasudena~arrogant and feeling like he has everything
tok loni au nasida humutur~I get dizzy when they sway
tok uluhu anggo nasida manghatai~My head hurts when they talk
tokkin au andorang rap uluan~hang on, I'm with the commander
tokkin hubege surak hoga nasida~For a moment I heard their happy cheers
tokkin muse ende imbaru masuk~Soon a new song will come in
tokkin muse hami giot papunguhon~soon we want to collect
tokkin muse isi batisan tondina~Soon there will be a soul mate
tokkin muse maderder ma ibana~Soon it will melt
tokkin muse muse imbaru masuk~I'll be in soon
tokkin muse ngolu ho dangol~Soon your life will be miserable
tokkin muse pamuli anak parompuan~Soon the daughter will be married off
tokkin muse puna naumposo imbaru~Soon I'll have a new junior
tolap ho asi mangan au~can you feed me?
tolap ho nari mangan au~can you still eat me
tolon ndada marroha bahen tarhirim~I swear I didn't mean to disappoint
tolong diorui unang hatop muruk~please reduce it, don't get angry quickly
tolopan punsu ni butuha surirang~consent to release of information
tolopi ondeng au sarupa ibana~I just agree with him
tolu dongan saama baea baea~three brothers
tolu opat onom pitu ualu~three four six seven eight
tombak, huta, luat, dolok, harangan~village forest, mountain forest area
tombis balerong jonok dia do~Tanjung Balai near where
tombos luhut tahitahi dohot rohana~all his dreams and desires are achieved
tompu antong hu uahon ni~I spontaneously shouted that too
tomu taon imbaru dohot hamubaon~Welcome the new year with changes
tondi batak au haru manombo~My Batak soul is dying
tondi ido i huta dia~what area is the soul in?
tondim hot ngolu di angkulahu~your soul still lives in my body
tondong balga dolidoli paredangedang indonesia~a large family of Indonesian adventurous youth
tondong hu haojakan bonar ngolukku~My family is the foundation of my life
tondong ra meam gari udan~The family wanted to play but it rained
tondonghu pa jolma batak luhut~My family is all Batak people
tonel na didongani dohot hageokon~skits accompanied by humor
tonel na didongani dohot hageokon~skits accompanied by humor.
tong holong dohot halak batak~I still love Batak people
tongdo asi au rap ho~I still love you
tongdo holong au rampak ho~I still love you
tonggi unang pintor dibondut artinya~sweet, don't swallow it straight away means
tonggohon anakmi diparalangalangan on oma~Pray for your child abroad, Mom
tonggohon asa ndada isi alangan~Pray that there are no obstacles
tonggohon pahompum on ompung boru~Pray for your grandson, Grandma
tongkin au tanggo olo asi~I'll see in a minute, darling
tongkin muse diain anak ho~Soon your child will be adopted
tongkin muse hu pamate ho~I'll kill you in a minute
tongkin muse lao tu masojit~I'm going to the mosque soon
tongkin muse tuat pungkul pitu~I'll be down soon at seven o'clock
tongos ende di ari minggu~send songs for Sunday
tongos tabe rampak ina mi~send greetings to your mother
tongos tabe sarupa tondong dihuta~send greetings to the family in the village
tongoshon hepeng lima ratus ribu~send five hundred thousand
tongtong bagas linggoman tuhan jesus~always under the protection of the Lord Jesus
tongtong di tudos tudos pa~it's always compared
tongtong hita usehon ararhon tu~we still give it to you
tongtong hu tami bagas tangianghi~I always ask for it in my prayers
tongtong hu tonggohon bagas tangianghi~I always pray for you in my prayers
tongtong ingot dohot alat rohana~always remember and be alert
tongtong isi abat di hita~there are always obstacles for us
tongtong mandok dang adong hepeng~always say no money
tongtong manungkun sadihari ibana mamuhul~always ask when he confirms
tongtong manuturi mi sian pudi~always defend you from behind
tongtong mardingat hami anak mi~always remember we are your children
tongtong marpanganju ni lobi denggan~always giving in is better
tongtong martata suping dohot mengkel~always smiling and laughing
tongtong martongkar sa jolma on~This guy is always fighting
tongtong martuani boha pe parkarejoanna~always grateful whatever the job
tongtong mauli bulung dohot bagas~always happy and deep
tongtong menak mambege ende pastina~always comfortable hearing western songs
tongtong risi ndada hea lambok~always rough never gentle
tongtong sihol meme dohot tata~always miss mom and dad
tontu molo ho ate parbiar~Of course. if you're not a coward
tontu ondeng au satahi dongan~Of course I agree, friend
tontuhon inganan dohot tingki ondeng~just specify the place and time
torbang sahali ho pangalaho nadenggan~You are too much, dear
torop sahali natal di huta~Very merry Christmas in the village
torsa malim unang ho tanom~Don't keep the priest's story hidden
torsa naumbalga na hea dituriturihon~the greatest story ever told
torsahon torus tiur unang marlilit~Tell me frankly, don't beat around the bush
torus ardoanna rampak ho aha~So what's the matter with you?
torus be borngin mate listirik~then every night the electricity goes out
torus ho aha do au~what are you doing to me?
torus manginsipirasi dohot hot marsinondang~keep inspiring and keep shining
torus sip luhut baba hamuna~keep all your mouths silent
torus timbul di indonesia timbul~keep moving forward for a developed Indonesia
torusma hinan au biar manggugai~move on first. I'm afraid of disturbing you
torusma mangapuli luhut jolma ramot~keep entertaining everyone, congratulations
tota tombom hita das mate~fight us to death
tu hagompison huhut margandana umur~on health and increasing age
tu inganan paranginanginan parpudi mi~to your final resting place
tu ise ingkon hu aluhon~Who should I complain to?
tu jolma jolma i humaliatna~to the people around him
tu luhut loloan na doho~to all honorable attendees
tu lung surgo di punjung~to heaven to be alone
tu ni pardijabu hita saguman~to all our wives
tu onan tuhor kaen batik~Go to the market to buy batik cloth
tu son ma angkang sihol~Come here, I miss you
tu son pungkul sadia ho~what time are you coming here?
tuak sada solup jadi ma~one liter of palm wine is done
tuak sagalas mambahen ahu sonang~A glass of palm wine makes me happy
tuani ma au denggan musem~Thank God, I'm fine too
tuani ma denggan musem au~Thank God, I'm fine too
tuani ma isi na antus~Thank goodness someone understands
tuani ma ndada sala passorion~Thank goodness there's no wrong association
tuat tu bagas harajaon surgo~descend into the kingdom of heaven
tubu gabe anak na hipas~grow up to be a healthy child
tudos ae na torus tubu~like the feeling continues to grow
tudos aek i bulung suhat~like the water in taro leaves
tudos akuarium bortian ina au~like the aquarium of my mother's womb
tudos boaboa tagan tahi diinsirhon~such as notification before the plan is launched
tudos bunga bunga di porlak~like flowers in the garden
tudos halibutongan na jeges sangombas~like a beautiful rainbow for a moment
tudos hatorangan na hu gurit~like the description I wrote
tudos hatoropon di ina kota~like the crowds in the capital
tudos hau bulu diombus alogo~like a bamboo tree blown by the wind
tudos jo na nunga torbang~as in the past
tudos jolma ruar nagari ho~like you foreigners
tudos lilin na ditutung api~like a candle burned by fire
tudos mataniari na tarlonop on~like this setting sun
tudos miak mararga boti ma~like precious oil so it is
tudos ombun di manogot ari~like dew in the morning
tudos on haadongon di huta~this is the situation in the village
tudos panangga na patu tuana~like an old obedient dog
tudos patung au ho bahen~like a statue of me you made
tudos sala digunahon au hira~like it's being used incorrectly I think
tudos somal dohot ama partonggol~as usual with the flag father
tudos somal dohot amang partonggol~as usual with Mr. Panji
tudos tak pusupusu na mardomu~like linked heartbeats
tudos tampuk ndang hea tipul~like the stem never breaks
tuhan andar bagas parkongsian huriana~God is present in the fellowship of his people
tuhan dais hansit sahit on~God accepts this disease
tuhan gogotna marjuang sopola songkongan~God it's hard to fight without support
tuhan gogotna parjuangan sopola songkongan~God, the struggle is difficult without support
tuhan gomos ma tondong on~God make this family strong
tuhan hami ra marsiajar malua~God, we want to learn
tuhan hapala dohot asal pangapulon~god of leadership and source of comfort
tuhan hirana mamasumasu sasude tahim~God may bless all your plans
tuhan hophop au sangga on~God embrace me now
tuhan isi di dingkan mi~God is on your side
tuhan jesus mamasumasu sasudena amen~Lord Jesus bless everyone..amen
tuhan lean pangondian di nasida~God give protection to them
tuhan ma inganan pangkirimon tangkas~God is the place of sure hope
tuhan ma na mamalos hadengganon~God is the one who repays goodness
tuhan ma na mamalos sasudena~God is the one who repays everything
tuhan mamasumasu daging dohot tondimi~God bless your body and spirit
tuhan mamasumasu pangurupion hita rap~God bless our ministry together
tuhan martembak hatigoran dohot hasintongon~God desires justice and truth
tuhan na palolohon pinarsinta hita~God makes our desires come true
tuhan na pandaoni dohot pamalumhon~a God who heals and restores
tuhan na patulushon pinarsinta mi~God grants your wishes
tuhan ni sa ingkon dihabiari~God is to be feared
tuhan pasadama roha hami mardua~God unite our hearts
tuhan pasahat siholhu di ibana~God convey my longing to him
tuhan sangga au dabu dipaila~God when I fall humiliated
tuhan tongtong mamasumasu hita saguman~God always blesses us all
tuhan tongtong manghadap pardalanan ngoluhu~God continues to visit my life journey
tuhan urupi painding dirihu dohotsa~God please separate me from him
tuhan urupi sungguli parompuan ido~God, please wake up that woman
tuhanhu manang ho mangae sidangolonhi~My God, do you feel my suffering?
tuhanhu manang ho mangae sidangolonhi~My God, do you feel my suffering.
tuhor na godang bahen parradeon~buy lots to stock up
tuhor ubat daging angkang mohop~buy medicine for your body's fever
tuhu martaon imbaru tujabu hu~Seriously, you've only been to my house for years?
tuhu ni dapotmu sian dia~Seriously, where did you get that?
tujung mi holan sintab mansam~Your veil is just a variation
tuk ingkon maralo dohot roha~Tired of having to go against your heart
tulang parago padan tu au~uncle broke his promise to me
tulang tamba balga pajal oto~Uncle is getting bigger, stupid pond
tulen ra gege daging on~I really want to crush this body
tuli tu son ma asa~stop by here so
tulima bagas nipi atik pe~come in a dream though
tulluk ruangna asa huduru anakmi~Poke the hole so your child can come out
tulus do roham tu au~Are your hearts sincere to me?
tulus ma parjolo boruboru ondeng~Just focus on one woman
tumagon mangopi jo ma au~I'd better have a coffee first
tumagon ngolu bulus namun sonang~It's better to live simply as long as you're happy
tumbuk ma peus portibi mataniari~boxing is the arrogance of the world of the sun
tunduk ho lamu lagak ho~I think the more handsome you are
tunduk, mangoloi dohot lomo marrunding~obedient and likes to negotiate
tung ari ari na mangalojai~what a tiring day
tung ateate hu ndang manontu~I really feel uncertain
tung ho mangasi hatoban mi~you really love your servant
tung jeges pintu di lontik~what a beautiful carved door
tung ndada marparange diri mi~You're really immoral
tung tonggi suping partigatiga ni~the merchant's smile was really sweet
tungkang, pande, pande bagas basir~smith
tungkang, pande, pande bagas guntur~troublemaker
tupa au na marpahu nalahang~maybe I'm too selfish
tupa ibana ndada puna tohap~maybe he doesn't have a quota
tupa luhut on isi parsaulianna~maybe all this has a silver lining
tupa ndang dope mangan morana~maybe you haven't eaten enough
tupa ngoluhu ndada hasea muse~maybe my life is no longer useful
tupa ondeng boi masuk buea~maybe a crocodile could enter
tupa parbogason hita nunga silbak~maybe our relationship has cracked
tuptup ndada dohar digugai olat~the decision cannot be contested
turgas nasida adong ma patotahon~their job is to bring order
turiturian holangholang porhis dohot sihapor~the story between the ant and the grasshopper
turun ma dalan na be~A massive celebration party is the way to go
tutu pa iboto baea amangamanghu~That's right, my brother
tutu sahali na ho dokhon~what you said is very true
tutu sahali na ho pandok~what you said is absolutely right
tutu saparbinotoan au naung sae~That's right, as far as I know it's finished
tutung ondeng motor bodat ni~just burn the monkey car
ua patandahon diri mi hu~please introduce yourself
uarna tulen sa ate ijo~the original color is not green
udan ardo sa di son~it's raining here
udan mohop na au jongkong~the hot rain that I endured
udut annon au lao lompa~I'll cook later
ugasan aha na ho jama~what object are you holding
uhai ondeng luhut ruasna uluan~just contact all the members, commander
uhal aha na porlu dihatai~discuss what needs to be discussed
ujungna anggia naung hipas mulak~Finally, my sister is healthy again
ujungna au boto ama dainang~finally I know mom and dad
ujungna au targasip bagas hasalaan~Finally I got caught in an error
ujungna dijangkon angkup meme sa~finally accepted by his mother
ujungna donganhu mangan sopola abatabat~Finally my friend ate without a hitch
ujungna ho mangolgap tijur sadasa~finally you swallowed your own saliva
ujungna naung saut tabo sahali~in the end it was really delicious
ujungna ro dohot ramot siluana~Finally the prize arrived safely
ujungna tongtong tarpunjung musem suang~In the end, you still get left out...
ulaon ama adong ma soldadu~My father's job is a soldier
ulaon hasohoton anak baoa parjolo~first son's wedding party
ulaon hita marsogot karejo pir~Our party is tomorrow, work hard
ulaon inganan parsatongkinan ompung boru~grandmother's funeral
ulaon las ni roha posoposo~baby safety
ulaon mi ndang dope sae~your work is not finished yet...
ulaon sere lima pulu taon~fifty year golden jubilee
ulok mamuhung alit di handang~snakes coiled around the fence
ulok mamuhung i ginjang handang~snake coiled over the fence
ulos binoto ansiat tanda adat~Ulos is known as a traditional symbol
ulos dang muse gabe pahean~Ulos is no longer clothing
ulos na diabithon ansiat ni~ulos worn as
ulu ho ra hu ponsahon~I want to break your head
ulu ho salaksak mora pungkul~your head is bald like a marble
ulu martujung toru luluan pidong~hooded head down looking for birds
ulu ompung boru ho natanata~Your grandma's head is tacky
ulu patu mida tu tano~bowed head looking at the ground
ulubalang na jogi dohot balang~tough and loyal commander
uluhu mirdong beha dohot ulum~my head is dizzy, what about your head
uma mar lereng teleng teleng~rice fields what are you afraid of tilting bikes?
umma au naung ndang dope~kiss me yet
umpamana datu ajimat dohot panggortap~for example shamans, talismans and fortune tellers
umur apala sampulu sia taon~minimum age is nineteen years
umur hot ripe ingkon diparateatehon~Marriage age must be taken into account
umur hot ripe pola diparateatehon~Marriage age must be taken into account
umur marganda tarida lam poso~As you get older, you look younger
umur ndada hea gabe abatabat~age is never a barrier
unang amoamo au tudos pinahan~don't treat me like an animal
unang anggap be ito mu~Don't assume it's yours anymore
unang annon hu janggola ho~Don't let me grab you
unang annon ulu anggi barutu~Don't let your little brother get a lump on his head
unang arbis arbis tingki salpu~Don't mention the past
unang asi malbangalbang ompung doli~Don't give it any slack, Grandpa
unang bahen hagaoron muse olo~Don't make a fuss anymore okay?
unang bahen hami saut gomuk~Don't make us fat
unang bangkol dophon jabu sadasa~Don't hesitate to make yourself at home
unang bangkol hita on tondong~Don't hesitate, we are family
unang buat bulung ni salak~Don't take snake fruit leaves
unang buat mirdong ompung boru~Don't bother your daughter's grandparents
unang das arga dirim dipatoru~Don't let your self-esteem be lowered
unang das au sipak ho~don't let me kick you
unang das bangkit ae bias~don't let boredom arise
unang das di pasipasi pa~Don't let it be left over
unang das marubat huta olo~Don't go to village treatment, okay?
unang di eret annon selong~Don't move it or you'll go cross-eyed
unang di pasip saut magurbak~Don't let it become an infection
unang di radoti bagas poti~Don't store it in a crate
unang di songgak alai dihasiani~Don't be shouted at, but loved
unang diparhasomal holan manjaha ondeng~Don't get used to just reading
unang diparsoada ho halangan ate~Don't admit it, you're a problem, aren't you?
unang dipasahat muse rampak au~Don't tell me again
unang ditanom tanom siholmu ni~Don't keep your longing hidden
unang ditatap annon ho lomo~Don't look at it or you'll like it
unang ditatap torus annon pitung~Don't keep looking or you'll go blind
unang dohoti au au nalilu~Don't follow me I'm lost
unang dokhon sintamu di ahu~Don't tell me you love me
unang dophon bile jolma asing~Don't take other people for granted
unang gaor di son hamuna~don't make a fuss here you guys
unang gaor hian naung borngin~Don't be so loud it's late at night
unang gaor ho saut jolma~Don't worry about being someone
unang godang eol di marutang~Don't be too much in debt
unang godang hata sarung rata~Don't talk too much about flat sarongs
unang godang hatam sarupa angkangmu~Don't talk too much to your brother
unang godang hian eol hamuna~Don't use too many styles
unang godang leak annon mate~Don't act too much or you'll die
unang godang pantas ma ho~don't talk too much
unang goki ari dohot parungkilan~Don't fill your day with sadness
unang hail au asa rimas~Don't provoke me into getting angry
unang hamu manuturi na sala~Don't defend what is wrong
unang hamuna tagi muse olo~Don't charge me again, okay?
unang hansur alani nalahang sadasa~Don't be destroyed because you are selfish
unang hea bias dohot pangalahohi~never get bored with my character
unang hea mangalangka dohot halenseng~never step forward with doubt
unang hea mangunjun di muba~never try to change
unang hea muse mandalani panjajaon~never again experience colonialism
unang ho antoi ardoan hu~don't interfere in my business
unang ho antoi hangoluon jolma~Don't interfere in people's lives
unang ho ardoi ngolu hu~don't mess with my life
unang ho dophon bile dirihu~Don't underestimate me
unang ho ehet au torus~Don't keep making fun of me
unang ho gabusi au angkang~Don't lie to me, brother
unang ho gabusi au asi~Don't lie to me darling
unang ho kail simor hu~Don't provoke me fiercely
unang ho kanji i i~don't put starch in there
unang ho leas tanggo au~don't look at me lightly
unang ho lomos di ahu~don't doubt me
unang ho lomos rampak au~don't doubt me
unang ho lotak ulu hu~don't hit my head
unang ho maniop buku i~don't hold that book
unang ho martandang rampak ibana~don't date him
unang ho meam pa rohami~Don't play with your heart
unang ho pauneunehon tagan marlumba~Don't give up before competing
unang ho tudoshon dohot nasida~don't compare with them
unang holan bistok ondeng diroha~Don't just be smart in your mind
unang holit ho tu dongan~Don't be stingy with your friends
unang ida loni annon targasip~Don't look, you'll get trapped
unang impol dohot arga angkang~Don't be tempted by the price bro
unang ingot au muse da~Don't remember me anymore okay?
unang ingot tingki bangkin mi~Don't remember your dark times
unang jekjek jekjek olo angkang~Don't be naughty, bro
unang jolma asing na jumahana~Don't let anyone else read it
unang jolo, hinan, hian diombus~don't blow it yet
unang jonoki karejo na buruk~don't approach bad work
unang jou au jolma matua~don't call me old man
unang kanji sarupa baoa asing~don't date other guys
unang lalap di arti portibion~don't be busy in the sense of this world
unang las roha anggo dipuji~Don't be happy when you are praised
unang lean malbangalbang inang baju~don't give slack aunty
unang lean monang na asing~Don't give anyone else a chance to win
unang leleng leleng muse modomna~don't sleep too long
unang loja di mangajari angkang~Don't get tired of teaching brother
unang lomo pabalikhon tarida dongan~Don't like to reverse the facts, friend
unang lomo panipu ho da~Don't like your cheater okay?
unang lupa anggo mulak dungoi~Don't forget to wake up when you come home
unang lupa angkup angkup tuau~Don't forget the souvenirs for me
unang lupa arisan ta marsogot~Don't forget our social gathering tomorrow
unang lupa arisan ta sogot~Don't forget our social gathering tomorrow
unang lupa arisan ta songgot~Don't forget our social gathering is surprised
unang lupa diburi ijurna angkang~Don't forget to clean your saliva, brother
unang lupa dokhon dohot angkangna~don't forget to tell his brother
unang lupa handit salaoarna marsogot~Don't forget to lift your pants tomorrow
unang lupa hassang rampak lingkitna~Don't forget the nuts and the skin
unang lupa hotuk pintu hian~Don't forget to knock on the door first
unang lupa inum kopi angkanghu~Don't forget to drink coffee, my brother
unang lupa inum tambarmu amang~Don't forget to take your medicine, sir
unang lupa laho hatop mulak~don't forget to hurry home
unang lupa mangajar amang guru~Don't forget to teach the teacher
unang lupa mangan bodarina olo~Don't forget dinner, okay?
unang lupa mangontang au olo~Don't forget to invite me okay?
unang lupa marminggu anggo boi~Don't forget to worship if you can
unang lupa martangiang sogot ujian~Don't forget to pray for the exam tomorrow
unang lupa martangiang tu sasudena~don't forget to pray for everyone
unang lupa martobo lomo bagihon~don't forget to subscribe like share
unang lupa mate satongkin hasianna~don't forget his beloved little brother
unang lupa silua bahen au~Don't forget a gift for me
unang lupa siluana olo angkang~Don't forget the gift, brother
unang lupa tambahon andaliman lae~Don't forget to add andaliman lae
unang lupa tete bagas palastik~Don't forget to defecate in plastic
unang lupahon imbaru paiung on~Don't forget this new umbrella
unang ma dipataridahon rittik ni~Don't show it as crazy
unang ma ho barani mangaririt~Don't you dare propose
unang ma ho mangangguk monggop~don't cry in secret
unang ma ho manggabusi au~don't lie to me,
unang ma mamintor rimas ho~don't get angry right away
unang ma mangantikhon hasabamon au~Don't test my patience
unang mambaen padan molo diose~Don't make a promise if it's broken
unang mamunten jolma sian rupana~Don't judge people by their looks
unang manambai masala sagi hami~please don't add trouble for us
unang mandasing pardonganon dohot hepeng~Don't measure friendship with money
unang mangabuk au ma mas~Don't force me bro
unang mangadangi di jabu ondeng~Don't just wander around the house
unang mangahap diri lobi nadumenggan~Don't feel yourself superior
unang mangan rambutan muse olo~Don't eat rambutan anymore
unang mangarimpu au bistok mamorso~Don't think I'm good at lying
unang mangasta bahasa batak ho~Don't insult your Batak language
unang manggugai pardijabu jolma ho~Don't disturb your wife
unang manghatai ateate rampak hu~Don't talk about your feelings with me
unang manghirim bonda jolma asing~do not covet other people's possessions
unang mangolap sampulu gomgom jahoba~do not disobey the ten commandments of god
unang marbogas dohot parompuan asing~Don't have relationships with other women
unang mardandi muse ma ho~don't sulk any more
unang marhata tudos ni damang~Don't say things like that, son
unang marhatai rampak jolma asing~don't talk to other people
unang marhatai tu jolma asing~don't talk to other people
unang marlobianhu ho manuntut au~Don't be too demanding of me
unang marmeammeam annon dimuruki dainang~Don't play around or mom will scold you
unang marpadan molo di diose~Don't make a promise if you break it
unang marpahu jotjot dang denggan~not too often is not good
unang marpahu mongkus annon muta~Don't be too greedy or you'll vomit
unang marpangalaho na mangarsakhon angkup~Don't behave in a way that disturbs your partner
unang marpangalaho songon horong sambola~Don't behave like the next group
unang marraungraung rampak jolma asing~don't depend on other people
unang marsak dohot hot bonar~Don't be sad and keep your spirits up
unang marsurasura roa rampak jolma~Don't be prejudiced against people
unang martaru ho jaga ho~don't gamble you watch you
unang marutokutok buruk tu sasahalak~Don't think badly of someone
unang mate annon siluana mago~Don't die or the prize will be lost
unang matombuk pa pisik hita~Don't leak our secrets
unang meam piso borngin borngin~Don't play with knives at night
unang morot manang hupamate ho~Don't move or I'll kill you
unang na gogot anggo manghatai~Don't be difficult when talking
unang ndang marsipaidaan alani bunbunan~don't fight because of the pile
unang ondeng marsogot manogot udan~Just don't let it rain tomorrow morning
unang paboa rampak jolma masalam~Don't tell people your problem
unang pagodanghu padan aba uluan~Don't make too many promises, boss
unang pagodanghu porso aba tokke~Don't lie too much, boss
unang pagodanghu porso aba uluan~Don't lie too much, Chief
unang paingot au mandok ibana~: don't remind me about him
unang pala totong olo oma~Don't be surprised, Mom
unang palelenghu marhata nunga borngin~Don't talk too long, it's already late
unang pamasuk hami tubagas pangunjunan~do not put us into temptation
unang parago dohot padan mi~don't break your promise
unang pardulihon au muse amang~Don't care about me anymore sir.
unang parhasomal lupa mangisi absen~Don't make it a habit to forget to fill in your absence
unang paributhu anggihi muse modom~Don't be noisy, my sister is sleeping
unang paributhu naung borngin dongan~Don't be noisy, it's late, friend
unang pasombu hopal marlaiar sadasa~don't let the ship sail itself
unang pasombu indonesia marsirang sirang~Don't let Indonesia get divorced
unang pasombu indonesia marsirang sursar~Don't let Indonesia split apart
unang patudu tu amang mu~Don't show it to your father
unang peak di inganan on~don't put it in this place
unang pola ajak hamu au~you don't have to invite me
unang pola marpahu buru ho~you don't need to be too hasty
unang pudun parbogason dohot tarabuk~Don't enter into a relationship by force
unang ra diotoi dohot ibana~Don't be fooled by him
unang remeng muse olo asi~Don't be fussy anymore, darling
unang remeng muse olo holonghi~Don't be fussy anymore, my darling
unang riar loni mata mi~Don't wild your eyes
unang rimas annon mago ulina~Don't be angry or the sweetness will disappear
unang rimas annon ulina mago~Don't be angry or your beauty will disappear
unang rimas di di elek~don't be angry to be persuaded
unang sahat huantuk hamuna nadua~Don't let me hit you both
unang sahera anak metmet ma~don't be like a child
unang sala tatap tu au~don't look at me wrong
unang sangsi molo ndang dongan~Don't worry, if you don't have friends
unang saut ambatambat luhut sa~Don't be an obstacle to everything
unang saut ariparip ndada marutok~Don't be a brainless bastard
unang saut panggeno ho ou~Don't be a destroyer, okay?
unang sihol sihol ni bonton~Don't miss it. Missing is hard
unang so tudos patung ondeng~Don't just stand still like a statue
unang songoni dosa ma ho~Don't be like that, it's your sin
unang suping annon au tarhait~Don't smile or I'll be interested
unang tailihon au annon duruk~Don't look at me, I'll fall down
unang tangkang aha muse tingkal~Don't be rude or flirty
unang tarlambat borhat karejo sa~don't be late for work
unang teal loni ho bolis~Don't be arrogant, devil!!
unang tilli jolma na manghansitimu~Don't pay attention to people who hurt you
unang tinodo bistok annon pogi~Don't be called smart or you'll fall down
unang torus biar ra manungkun~Don't be afraid to ask questions
unang torus torus annon dabu~Don't speed up or you'll fall
unang torus torus boan kareta~Don't go fast on a motorbike
unang tudoshon au dohot dirim~don't compare me with you
unang tudoshon hami dohot nasida~Don't compare us with them
unang tuhu loni pamberengan mi~Don't take your eyes seriously
unang uhal muse geok au~Don't talk about it anymore, I'm amused
unangma martoruk gabe bangkol hami~Don't be so humble that we are embarrassed
undukhon sirsir sa hu pandok~Yes, that's exactly what I said
unsok ho mora dengke sibahut~you're like a catfish
unte loni on hurang jeges~the oranges this time were not so good
upa upa panggogo bonar daging~wages to strengthen the body's spirit
upana holan dohar bahen mangan~his salary can only cover food
urdo das manghurtik mata pat~swing until it touches your ankles
ursa pe marlojong angka hitir~The deer ran scared
urupi bongka tudos on diparateatehon~please pay attention to things like this
urupi buathon sada galas kopi~please get me a cup of coffee
urupi di jaha dohot sulingkit~please read carefully
urupi pamian pungkul hu angkang~Please save my watch, brother
urupi tangihon andung roha hami~please listen to the lamentation of our hearts
urupi tondong na asi dainang~help his family poor mother.
urupi unang ponggolhon rohahi muse~Please don't break my heart again
urupi urupi au asa pistar~please help me to be proficient
urupima asa targadis tano on~help to sell this land
usa sabun di palak tangan~Rub soap into palms
usang ma angka da uba~skinny are the clue words to ensure change
utokna punguan ni parjahat ni~the mafia's brains
utokutok ho didia ho ampehon~where do you put your brain?
utokutok ho didia ho peak~where your brain is located
utokutok ho olo di duguldugul~your brain is in your knees
utokutok mi didia ho peak~where your brain is located
utokutok mi isina rorang luhut~Your brain is all filled with porn
utokutok mi tudos sa martihas~Your brain seems to have a problem
utokutok sa mussat tu piapia~the brain moves to the kidneys
aba hape didadang au hira mago~Oh apparently it was dried in the sun, I thought it was lost
adong do jolma na mangaluahon hu~will anyone let me go?
adong do polisi di huta i~there were police in the village
adong dope do nasida di san?~are they still there?
adong dope na tigatiga kopi amang~There are still people selling coffee, sir
adong dope piga piga papan nai~how many more boards are there?
adong dope tahena gantungan gaji mi~You still have your salary hanging over you
adong hepeng dang adong hepeng. sonang~no money no money .relax
adong ma dos ni roha rap~is a mutual agreement
adong ma sisik sisik na mapeut~are scales that fall off
adong malal au roha tu ho~I have feelings for you
adong na lobi hot martimbanghon au~is there anyone better than me?
adong pe parenta di marsi mangasi~there is a commandment to love one another
ae giak au hansit ulu ulu~I feel nauseous, have a headache
ae ra muta au ida sa~I feel like I'm going to vomit when I see it
ae sa giot manggora sagogo tupa~I felt like screaming as loud as possible
ae solsol na ro naung tarlambat~the regret that came was too late
ae sungkana on mambahen ahu ila~This awkwardness makes me embarrassed
aek binanga ido naung sonap tudiadia~The river water had overflowed everywhere
aek mata mi ima hagabuson mi~Your tears are your lies
aek sa litok annon ho lonong~If the water is cloudy, you'll drown
aekna hasea di diinum pasaut gula~The water is useful for drinking/making sugar
aga gabe jambar sian halak batak~proud to be part of the Batak children
agan ho nunga medangedang ido tais~even though you have wandered, so far away
agan marpahu jotjot ho ponggolhon nipihu~even though too often you break my dreams
agan ndang hea hubereng diri sa~even though I never looked at him
aganan adong dope parhobason lapo abit~although there are still preparations at the fabric shop
aganan gurgar hot bagak pa asi~Even though it's messy, it's still beautiful, right?
aganan hita padaodao urupi radot rohami~Even though we are far apart, please guard your heart
aganan songonon daona hot tarbege soarana~Even though he was so far away, his voice could still be heard
aganpe ate anak lumamglumamg naso marina~although not an orphan
aganpe matua tongdo hita sada sundut~Even though we are old, we are still in the same generation
agia apala bonton sitaononna ibana sabam~even though his suffering was so heavy, he surrendered
agia hepengna godang ngoluna ndada menak~Even though he has a lot of money, his life is not peaceful.
agiat hita boi eleng partuturan pardonganon~I hope we can bring brotherly ties closer together
agoi boasa maol hian lao modom~Ouch! why is it so hard to sleep?
aha buktina anggo lomo rampak hu~What's the proof that you like me?
aha do ho on ila au~What are you doing, I'm embarrassed
aha do lapatanni buha buha ijuk~What does it mean to open open palm fibers?
aha do na ho tahihon tuhan~What are you planning, God?
aha habar di roha na holom~How are you, for the dark heart
aha hata na ho hata ni~what are the words you said?
aha hita dopang jolma paisolat ni~do we fight the immigrants?
aha hita ra ngolu masi maraloalo~do we want to live at odds with each other?
aha ho lomo tubi manuk dongan~Do you like cockfighting, friend?
aha ho olo mebat tu jabuhu~do you want to visit my house?
aha ho ra gabe pandongani ngoluhu~do you want to be my life partner?
aha ho ra pajumpang dohot au~do you want to date me
aha ho silbak piapia ho annon~will you crack your kidney later?
aha holonghi na tonggi dohot jabir~what a sweet and chatty darling I am
aha lompan na ho mangan angkang~what side dishes do you eat, brother?
aha ma au ndada puna haholongan~What's more, I don't have a lover
aha ma au on holan parkarejo~What am I, just a worker
aha ma buktina asa porsea au~What proof do you have to believe me?
aha ma gogo au sahalak partukkang~What can I do? I'm a mechanic
aha ma gogoku dang tammat sikkola~What can I do? I didn't finish school
aha masalam molo au marhatai dison~what is your problem if I talk here
aha muse na ra di lete~what else do you want to pursue?
aha na andorang hamuna sundur on~what are you guys talking about?
aha na disangkapi sampulu parenta jahoba~what is meant by the ten commandments of god
aha na hamu parsinta i ginjangna~What do you want on it?
aha na ho guruhon di sikkola~what you learn at school
aha na jolma suru au ulahon~what people tell me, I do
aha na lehononhu di dainang tarasi~what do I give to my beloved mother
aha na mambahen jolma tarmali tondi~what traumatizes people
aha na mangendat sian parompuan ni~what is interesting about that woman
aha na naeng ho ulahon hasian~what are you doing darling?
aha na ndada ho antus holonghi~What don't you understand my darling?
aha na sedan ho olohon disan~what are you doing there?
aha ndada bolas jojak on hita~Can't we trace this?
aha ondeng asal naniomo di huta~what are the sources of income in the village?
aha sala sa ida dali ho~what's wrong with looking at your milk?
aha salahu boasa hamuna manggosa ahu~what did I do wrong why did you hurt me
aha sipareakan na ra didungdung ni~what is the goal to be achieved?
ai bahasa asa godang hepeng tutu~o... language to make lots of money really
ai boasa holan namar musik torus~why just keep making music?
ai ndang dope modom dolidoli lobangon~How come the toothless young man hasn't slept yet?
ala aek topi binanga pala litok~that the river bank water is very murky
ala au naeng mangahap pinjil dingolum~because I will feel foreign in your life
ala au naeng muba rumang tudos~that I will change shape to resemble
ala ido naeng papatuhon sasude sigomgom~for he will conquer all rulers
ala jolma parise martongtang dohot hami~for the Pharisees were against us
ala luhut jolma nunga maninggalhon au~because everyone has left me
ala soara manggirgir hamuna ndada ahaaha~that voice was shaking. you guys are okay
alai alani bangkona na ndang naingkon~however, because of its non-obligatory nature
alai anakna naung lao tais tarnata~but it turns out his son has gone far away
alai au giot on anggo boi~but I would like this if I could
alai au nari aning unjun manjae~but I'm still waiting for the self-examination
alai au ndada jago marbahasa batak~but I'm not good at speaking Batak
alai au pala denggan ari on~even though I'm very good today
alai au tading i parhutaan batak~but I live in a Batak village
alai boasa pardompahan ho budingkil ido~but why is your forehead so bumpy?
alai di balos dohot tingki oto~but responded with indifference
alai di manghaholongi mi anture haehe~but to love you requires consideration
alai disan holan marhata hata mangalesengi~but there they only said sarcastic words
alai dungkon inana torus mangabuk ujungna~but after his mother continued to insist finally
alai godang manisia na ndada mangaramoti~However, many people do not maintain it
alai ho ndada hea mangantusi halomoanhu~but you never understand my wishes
alai ho ndada sun manjalo hahurangonhi~but you are not ready to accept my shortcomings
alai ho tarbereng tudos isi masala~but you look like you have a problem
alai iba do asi rampak ibana~but he admits he loves him
alai naung boi do bahasa batak~but it's usually Batak language
alai ndada saotikpe na hami antusi~but we don't understand anything at all
alai ni nari ndang dope mararga~but it's still not worth it
alai nuaeng au sangsi tonga taruji~but now I'm worried about being tested
alai pardagingon mamintor ndada pardulihon au~but you just don't care about me
alai rohahi on naung tartanom sintamu~but my heart is already embedded in your love
alai sude holan angan angan do~but it's all just wishful thinking
alai tabo ai modom didahop ho~but it's nice to sleep in your arms
alana nasida boi lomona dion, dison~because they can do whatever they want here
alana nasida boi lomona i son~because they can do whatever they want here
alani ate au na mangulahon panguhalon~because I'm not the one doing the discussion
alani au dang dope dokkon inangku~because I haven't told my mother yet
alani au dang patut bagi mu~because I don't deserve to give you
alani au hea dirimpu jolma medan~because I was once thought to be a Medan person
alani au ndada boi manorui ho~because I can't come to you
alani au ndang patut sagi mi~because I don't deserve you
alani bagas holom ho dos sondang~because in the dark you are like light
alani bahenbahenan mangoloi harohaon jolma matua~because he obeyed his parents' wishes
alani dohar marpanghorhon buruk sagi hagompison~because it can have a bad effect on health
alani gunaguna dohot tingki na maralangan~because of busyness and lack of time
alani hapistaronna bunga gabe timbo roha~because of his intelligence, the flower becomes arrogant
alani ho dang hea tadinghon au~because you never left me
alani ho jama dohot tangan mi~because you touch it with your hand
alani ho ma satonga tondi hu~because you are half of my soul
alani holongna hita boi marpungu dison~because of his love we can gather here
alani ido naung jala tiopan ngolu~because it has become a guide to life
alani impol holangholang ni haehae mi~because you're tempted by your crotch
alani na denggan gogot didapot muse~because good ones are hard to come by anymore
alani naung das di pudi pardalananna~because he had reached the end of his journey
alani ndang dope jalo santisanti ruas~because they had not received the congregation's offerings
alani ni mangoluma lomo tu jahoba~therefore live a life pleasing to God,
alani nunga mangalaosi oraora balga do~because he had violated a major prohibition
alani parlakku panangko ardo panolangi jobung~because the perpetrator who stole the reserve was caught
alani pogos mandao, molo mamora manjonok~because the poor stay away, if the rich come closer
alani rampak rampak boi mangalo tihus~because both can fight the enemy
alani sada hasalaan lupa saribu parjuangan~because one mistake forgets a thousand struggles
alani sadalan asa sa isi hamubaon~because it is in line, there is change
alani sasude silangko na isi tuho~because of all the shortcomings that you have
alani tipul roha taradop sahalak haholongan~because of a broken heart towards a lover
alapi ma hami di jabu olo~pick us up at home, okay?
alapi na allong arbas na ondingonding~Pick up anything left behind by the bulldozers that get in the way
ale amban bohim bonsa tudos ni~Hi, why is your face gloomy like that?
ale ima mabiar iba hona tolak~Yes, that's all I'm afraid of getting dizzy
ale patandahon goar au anak boru~Hi, my name is Putri
ale tuhan pahou do udan on~Oh God, stop this rain
alimos bohi ina ro ro andar~the image of mother's face suddenly appeared
allang ma ho asa menak pikkiranmu~Eat to calm your mind
alogo pasahat siholhu tu tano hatutubuhu~The wind conveys my longing for my homeland
alus sasahalak huhut repot paradehon harotas~someone answered while busy preparing papers
alusan sa saingkon sa ate ni~the answer should not be that
ama ho bolong aek di salaoar~Dad, you pooped your pants
amang bereng ma pangalaho helam ni~Sir, look at your son-in-law's behavior
amang bibit ra ihut ngail ndada~Sir Arif, do you want to go fishing?
amangamang hu parkarejo pir sopola loja~My husband is a hard worker without tired
amban be manisia mamunten sian pardagingon~why does every human judge based on physical appearance?
amban bohi hamuna haberengan murhing luhut~why do your faces look all scrunched up?
amban ro ro asi gula olo~Why do you suddenly give me sugar?
ambil tuhan dohot arta dohot daging~glorify God with wealth and body
ambolong tingki martandang dohot jolma silom~wasted time dating Muslims
amen jalo asi angkanghu na lagak~Amen, thank you, my handsome brother
ampe adong ma lapik di modom~A mat is a base for sleeping
amporik ndada masihol ompung boru do~Sparrow doesn't miss grandma, does he?
anaha molo isi na mandege patmu~my son if anyone steps on your feet
anak ai remeng hian buat simor~Why do children get so fussy and make them emotional?
anak baoa naung lagak naung margusting~Lanang's son is already handsome, he's already trimmed.
anak boru tulang hu tarnata bagak~My uncle's daughter turned out to be beautiful
anak borua batak urupi buri pinggan~Batak girls help wash the dishes
anak hu asi hirimonhu pahehe tondihu~my beloved child, my hope, the encouragement of my soul
anak hu bagak sahali suman inana~My child is very beautiful, just like his mother
anak ise on naung renges modomna~Whose child is sleeping soundly?
anak ise on renges sahali modomna~Whose child is sleeping so soundly?
anak manuk luhut ni jekjek jekjek~chicks are all naughty naughty
anak metmet ndada bolas ihut laok~small children should not interfere
anak mi nuaeng godang porsan boban~Your child is now carrying a lot of burden
anak na marabit balau ido bagak~the child in blue is beautiful
anak na padot dohot denggan roha~persistent and kind child
anak pahompuhu naeng gabe jolma hasea~My children and grandchildren will be successful people
anak rampak inongna rampak pir ulu~The child and mother are equally stubborn
anakmi marsuru au so aha tahina~your son told me to be quiet. What does it mean?!
anakmi nunga ro, tu son ma~your son has come. come here
anakna ndada pantun rampak tudos amangna~his son is not as polite as his father.
anang aha na au tingkir ni~I don't know what I saw
anang aha na sorop tu ho~I don't know what happened to you
anang ma au ndada lomo jadina~I don't know, I don't like how it turned out
andar di sirarion buat au bilolangon~Attending meetings makes me nervous
ande ho ma godang pantas ho~It's up to you to talk a lot
andigan hita meam tano muse dongan~When will we play dirt again, friend?
andorang bagas hagogoton tangkas isi hamuraon~when in trouble there must be mercy
andorang bias dohot sihol gabe sada~when hate and longing become one
andorang hu dungkoti anggiat tuhan undukhon~I'm trying, God willing, yes
andorang hu hophop anggiat tuhan mangoloi~I'm still fighting, hopefully God will accept it
andorang ina hu mardomu donganna ressok~when my mother met her friend. noisy
andorang isi ho ngoluhu ndang menak~Since you were there, my life has not been peaceful
andung anak ranto dolidoli na tarsahiti~the wailing of hurting young overseas children
anggi hu dongan hu ndang marsipaidaan~my sister, my friend fought
anggi naumposo hu sa ni anggi~My junior brother is my younger brother
anggiat aha na diparsinta dohar tombus~hopefully what is expected can be achieved
anggiat aha na ditahi tuhan mamasumasu~I hope God blesses what you have planned
anggiat anggi lae hatop dohar ulaon~I hope my sister-in-law gets a job quickly
anggiat ari mi tongtong jeges puang~I hope your day is always beautiful, friend
anggiat ari parjolo mulak sikkola boho~I hope you have a great first day back at school
anggiat au tongtong di lean parhorasan~May I always be given safety
anggiat bajur musik on tongtong hasea~I hope this musical work is always successful.
anggiat boi saut bagak na sasintongna~I hope it can be truly beautiful
anggiat dabu hu sintong di siding~I hope my fall is right on the side
anggiat di jalo di lambung tuhan~May it be accepted by God
anggiat di pabulus dalanna das rapot~Hopefully the path to trial will be made easier
anggiat dilean habengeton dohot hojot malum~I wish you strength and a speedy recovery
anggiat dipatiur tuhan ngolu hamuna mardua~May God brighten your lives both of you.
anggiat gabe apangapang paduahon jolma matua~Hopefully it will be the pride of both parents
anggiat hamsar dohot hatop pariama tulang~I hope you have a smooth and quick harvest, uncle
anggiat hamsar dohot ndada isi abatabat~Hopefully it goes smoothly and there are no obstacles
anggiat hamsar dohot pariama rea tokke~Good luck and good harvest boss
anggiat hamsar parbagason sonang portibi haholomon~I wish you a smooth and lasting marriage in the afterlife
anggiat hamsar parbogason marsogot olo tuhan~I hope tomorrow's engagement goes well, God
anggiat hamuna hasea dohot tombus tahitahi~I hope you are successful and achieve your goals
anggiat hasea da dongan hu amen~I wish you success, my friend, amen
anggiat hatop gotap bogasna godang masala~I hope the relationship ends quickly, there are many problems
anggiat hatop malum asa boi marlange~I hope you get well soon so you can swim
anggiat hatop taruli pangapulon sian debata~I hope you get comfort from God soon
anggiat hipas tongtong dohot ditulushon parsaulianna~May you always be healthy and have good fortune
anggiat hipas tongtong dohot godang hepengna~I hope you are always healthy and have lots of money
anggiat hita dilean hatuaon dohot hagompison~May we be given blessings and health
anggiat hita marrongkap marjuang rampak rampak~I hope we can fight together together
anggiat hita tongtong das andigan pe~May we last forever
anggiat hitado sangap olo tondong medan~I hope we are successful, Medan family
anggiat ho sombu nunga mangompashon hu~I hope you're satisfied with throwing me away
anggiat hojot malum olo anak hu~I hope you get well soon, my son
anggiat hojot mamburju siulubalang ari hu~I hope my earth gets better soon
anggiat hojot manjumpanghon sasahalak na denggan~I hope you find someone good soon
anggiat holongmi bontor tudos holonghi tuho~I hope your love is as sincere as my love for you
anggiat inonghu dohot inangmi gabe bao~May my mother and your mother be in-laws
anggiat inonghu dohot inangmi saut bao~I hope my mother and your mother become in-laws
anggiat isi parsaulian di hosing on~Hopefully there is wisdom behind this
anggiat jahoba mamalos hadengganon hamuna luhut~May Allah reward you all with kindness
anggiat jala tohap aha na diula~I hope you will be rewarded for what you do
anggiat marujung dohot aropan na jeges~I hope it ends with a beautiful hope
anggiat masala on sahatopna dohar dipalese~Hopefully this problem can be resolved as soon as possible
anggiat nipim jeges di borngin on~I hope you have beautiful dreams tonight
anggiat ompung boru dipaian i surgo~I hope grandma will be placed in heaven
anggiat pangurupion marminggu hita dijangkon jahoba~May our deeds of worship be accepted by Allah
anggiat parjuanganhu mandapothon omo na boho~I hope my efforts will get satisfactory results
anggiat parkongsian hita di pasupasu tuhan~May our fellowship be blessed by God
anggiat ramot das sipareakan ditulushon karejona~I hope you reach your destination safely, your work will run smoothly
anggiat rap mi minar ngolu hu~I hope my life will be happy with you
anggiat sonang torus hamuna sonang tongtong~I hope it lasts forever for you, always happy
anggiat taon jolo au di topot~Hopefully next year I will be proposed
anggiat taon on boi pamasahon nipi~Hopefully this year you can make your dreams come true
anggiat taon on boi pamasahon sintasintahu~I hope this year I can make my dream come true
anggiat tarapul dohot ende on amanghu~I hope you enjoy this song, my father
anggiat tondong na ditadinghon dilehon habengeton~May the families left behind be given fortitude
anggiat tondonghu hipas dohot dipaganjang umur~I hope my family is healthy and has a long life
anggiat tong torus hamuna sonang tongtong~May you continue to be forever, always happy
anggiat tongtong di bagas linggoman jahoba~May you always be in Allah's protection
anggiat tua di umur nuaeng on~May you be blessed at this age
anggiat tua dohot boi maniop poda~May you be blessed and be able to keep your mandate
anggiat tudos suhat i bibir tolping~hopefully like taro on the edge of a cliff
anggiat tuhan hatop mangumpat hosa mi~May God quickly take your life
anggiat tuhan jesus pasupasu hita luhut~May God Jesus bless us all
anggiat tuhan mangalehon hagompison pardagingon dohot~May God give you physical health and
anggiat tuhan manghamsarhon sasude pambahenan hu~May God bless all my efforts
anggiat tuhan patuathon parsaulianna marsogot ari~May God send you his sustenance tomorrow
anggiat tuhan patulushon luhut elekelek hita~May God grant all our wishes
anggiat tuhan patulushon tangiang hita amen~May God answer our prayers. amen
anggiat tuhan tongtong manjama dohot mamasumasu~May God always touch and bless
anggo adong dang tupa dang dilehon~if there is, it's impossible not to give it
anggo adong dope jolma na bontor~if there are still sincere people
anggo apala hita mahilolong jo ulaonna~So, let's postpone the event first
anggo ate dongan naung hupultakhon hapalana~If it wasn't a friend I would have smashed his head
anggo ate jolma matua naung hupastap~If it wasn't a parent I would have slapped it
anggo ate naung hupamate on anak~If not, I would have killed this child
anggo au ambung mangarti ho susa~If I understand easily, it's difficult for you
anggo au lao tu pulo hapas~if I go to Kapok Island
anggo au marhabong au naeng habang~if I had wings, I would fly
anggo au naung habang tarae tondihu~When I fly, I feel my soul
anggo au naung menak ido menak~if I'm comfortable he's comfortable
anggo boi boan motor hita ni~if possible take our car
anggo boi boanhon motor hita ni~If possible, bring our car
anggo boi halak batak manggomgomi pentas~If possible, Batak people will dominate the stage
anggo boi jumpahon au rampak inanghu~if you can meet me with my mother
anggo boi lehon bolat tingki garar~If possible, give me a payment deadline
anggo boi manghatai annon hita di~If you can talk later we'll be there
anggo boi marbarita ma hita torus~If we can, we'll keep you posted
anggo boi nanaeng marjuang sangga on~if possible, those who are struggling right now
anggo boi sahatopna boasa ingkon annon~If you can do it sooner, why do you have to do it later?
anggo boi saonari boasa pola marsogot~If you can do it now, why do you have to do it tomorrow?
anggo butuha male pamberengan saut pitung~if your stomach is hungry your vision will become blind
anggo di huta dia isi joring~In which village is there Jengkol?
anggo di suru ni leleng ibana~If he's told to, it'll take him a long time
anggo diait gombarna saut puntar pabalga~If you drag the image it breaks down and enlarges it
anggo gajian dipabuni hepeng ni damang~If you get paid, save that money, son
anggo godang annon saut guru mara~If you do a lot, you will become a dangerous teacher
anggo hamlet mi rimas ho elek~If your boyfriend is angry, you persuade him
anggo harotas manang buku sipasingot au~if it's my memorial paper or book
anggo hatop marhata ho dang hubege~If you speak quickly I won't hear you
anggo hita ra ida tangkirisap tupudi~if we want to look back for a moment
anggo ibana pangido hepeng unang lehon~If he asks for money, don't give it
anggo ida sisolhot lagak mamintor bonar~When you see your handsome cousin you immediately get excited
anggo ido pangido maap ma au~then I'm sorry
anggo isi bongka na ndada diparsinta~if there is something undesirable
anggo isi hasuharan ido i hatai~If there's a problem, talk about it
anggo isi pambahenan au na sala~if I do something wrong
anggo isi panggontihu au sun marpanganju~If there is a replacement, I am ready to give in
anggo isi salahu elekelek dianju olo~If I made a mistake, please forgive me
anggo isi tingki angkir meam tujabu~If you have free time you can play at home
anggo laos ra langkup ni pandok~If you really want to cheat, say so
anggo luhut bongka na asing marrentaan~if everything else comes together
anggo marhatai dohot damang tangkas borbar~If you talk to your father it will be complicated
anggo martapian unang lupa gundar ngingi~When you shower, don't forget to brush your teeth
anggo masuk tu butuha mohop loni~if it gets into your stomach it's hot
anggo mida ho siboanon sa giot~When he sees you he innately wants to
anggo nangkok bus dang adong hepeng~if you take the bus there is no money
anggo nangkok di pudi dihangkung muta~if you ride in the back you are guaranteed to vomit
anggo naung melos naeng mago hinaulina~If it withers, it will lose its beauty
anggo naung ra malo loni manggerdek~If you want to, be clever at seducing
anggo ndada au boi mate boritan~otherwise I could die in pain
anggo ndada dilehon annon dibutbut misehu~If I don't give it, I'll have my mustache pulled off
anggo ndada isi hepeng ndada minar~if you don't have money you won't be happy
anggo ndada isi hepeng unang digogo~If you don't have money, don't force it
anggo ndada lomo mamintor ngomngom au~If you don't like it, come straight to my face
anggo ndada lomo unang dibalos muse~If you don't like it, don't reply again
anggo ndada ra mereng dalan sa~if you don't want to swerve the road
anggo ndada sala dion isi situmpak~If I'm not mistaken, there are supporters here
anggo ni denggan nimmu olohon ma~If it's good for you, do it
anggo puna nipi ingkon di lete~If you have a dream you have to chase it
anggo ra jolma sunggul diri jo~if you want people to be aware of themselves first
anggo ra marsiallangan roha sasara hipas~if you want to compete fairly
anggo ra pabali pandok ma dongan~If you want to get rid of it, just tell me, friend
anggo rittik danggur ondeng tu laut~If you're crazy, just throw it into the sea
anggo sala au manurat pandok olo~If it's wrong, I'll write and say yes
anggo sega tuhor na imbaru dugulna~If it's broken, buy a new one, kneel
anggo songoni unang adong na bege~then don't let anyone hear it
anggo tammat pudi taon naung dalan~If you graduate at the end of the year it's over
anggota na mansohot sian punguan ima~married individuals from that group only
angguliman ulak taon tu dainang bagas~birthday greetings to mom in
angka hata sa ndada maruap ugamo~His talk has no religious odor
angka hitir naeng hamamate lam mangarabas~the fear of death is increasingly pervasive
angkang baea baea mi marmeam juji~Your older brother gambles?
angkang dohar tongosan sian hamlet angkang~Brother got a delivery from brother's girlfriend
angkang hudia ondeng nangkin ndada haberengan~I couldn't see you anywhere
angkang lae andorang mebat tu jabu~Brother-in-law is visiting home
angkang naung marsiajar lobi pande bagas~Brother has studied more deeply
angkang naung ndada namarbaju muse rampak~My sister is no longer a virgin
angkang sa na hatotong pa au~His older brother was the one who surprised me
angkang sadihari ho naeng pamuli hu~Brother, when will you marry me?
angkula ndada boi ngolu sopola tondina~body, can't live. without his soul
angkup alani ni isi toktok hita~therefore there is our obligation
angkup be di disurat i duansa~by each in the letter both
angkup jolma na tu tu hurangan~by people in need
angkup ni tongtong huroa bolo sadihari~apart from always being possible if at any time
angkup sabangso sian sandok bangso marpungu~compatriots from all nations gathered:
aning paniroi mangalean hu di mangulahon~waiting for the supervisor to give me something to do
anju au i hahurangon hu holong~caress me in my flaws darling
anju ndada boi ro tu pestami~sorry can't come to your party
annon aek matami durus di jabuhu~later your tears will flow in my house
annon anggo hatop sae au mulak~Later, if it's finished quickly, I'll go home
annon anggo isi sirarion rampak panggomgomi~later when there is a meeting with officials
annon anggo naung ndang imbaru tarae~Later, when it's gone, it'll be felt
annon au abur bunga muse olo~I'll sow more flowers later
annon au muse na di tuhas~I'll be the one accused again
annon au patupa na tabo tabo~I'll serve you something delicious later
annon borngin au suba lontong lumba~Tonight I'll try lontong racing
annon borngin hita bahen pege olo~Tonight we'll make ginger
annon borngin ho hu baritai muse~I'll let you know again tonight
annon dang adong si panjaitan muna~Then there will be no panjaitan clan for you
annon hita sirarion anggo hita pajumpang~We'll discuss it later when we meet
annon ho aluhon rampak ama mi~Later you will complain to your father
annon holan mamorso sa panghulingmu on~Then you'll just be lying when you talk about it
annon hu umma ho sibagur rittik~I'll kiss you crazy frog later
annon i sulik inang baju hamuna~Later your aunt will kidnap you
annon ma siluam anggo isi hepenghi~I'll wait for your gift if I have my money
annon marsogot ra marjanji bagas medan~I'm going to have the contract tomorrow in Medan language
annon ndada dohar karsis ari senen~I won't be able to get tickets on Monday
annon pe luhut naeng digarar salese~Later everything will be paid in full
annon pintoron ndada isi hepeng ho~Later. you really don't have any money
annon saut hela inangmi dohot amongmu~later he will be your mother and father's son-in-law
annon tingki naeng patinda haadongon mi~Later time will change your situation
ansiat jolma matua hita galang ondeng~as parents, we just support it
ansiat tanda holong taradop tondong balga~as a sign of love for the extended family
ansiat tuan jabu repot di marhalado~as the host is busy to serve
antong do au on ugasan ise~Who do I really belong to?
antuasu riting dohot birubiru na bisuk~an angry wolf and a cunning sheep
anture pangunsandean di mambakbak luhut bangkin~need support to let go of all the worries
anture pangunsandean di mambakbak luhut loja~need a rest to relieve all tiredness
aoasi dalan unang das isi lobang~Watch the road for holes
apala anggo ndada porso hurang jeges~as if it wasn't beautiful if it wasn't a lie
apala au mandompakhon tu ruang guru~as soon as I turned to the teacher's room
apala dijama pandaoni anaha mamintor mamburju~As soon as the doctor touched me, my child immediately got better
apala godang abatabat na hu dalani~I have faced so many obstacles
ardo sa au ndada bahasa pinahan~The thing is, I don't speak animal languages
ardo sa ho jotjot buat soksok~The problem is that you often annoy me
ardoi ardoanmu na ndang dope sae~take care of your unfinished business
ardona godang na hea tuli nirohahu~because many people have stopped by my heart
ardona godang na hea tuli nirohahu.~because many people have stopped by my heart
arga diri diompashon sarupa jolma jonok~Self-esteem is lowered by someone close to you
arga diri pe mura ate sapala~self-esteem is absurdly cheap.
argana sarupa tudos pestami na metmet~the price is the same as your small party.
ari denggan alai buktina ndada denggan~good day but the evidence is not good
ari ndada isi habar barita sampulu~there is no news ten days
ari on mataniari pala mandoit sahali~today the sun is very hot
ari on ngiar ari mohop sahali~Today the weather is very hot
ari ris logo di mida hadadao~the weather was clear enough to see the distance
arian mohopan borngin ngalian saep damang~Hot days, cold nights, be patient, son
arop tingki marganjang andorang rap imana~I hope the time is longer when I'm with him
aropan balga tondongna di manumpahi tondong~his family has great hopes for helping the family
aropan lobi hu na manggosa au~My expectations are what hurt me
arta hu ndada isi anian sa~My wealth is incomparable
arti na au dang bagak hape?~I mean, I'm not pretty
asa anggiat hatop malum sahitmu ni~so that you get well soon from your illness
asa boi au pakansi tu jakarta~so I can go on holiday to Jakarta
asa boi gabe anak apangapang tondong~so that he can become the proud child of the family
asa boi hu doit hepeng mi~So I can taste your money
asa das pogos alom ni annon~so that your enemy becomes poor later
asa di tuan na mangalusi alusna~Let the master answer
asa dohar mangadopi ulaon parbagason mi~to be able to attend your wedding party
asa hami boi mambalanjoi hangoluon hami~so we can live our lives
asa hami ro parade bagian hami~let us come. prepare our rations
asa hami tama di adopanmu tuhan~so that we can be worthy before you, Lord
asa hami tama jala parsidohot mi~so that we are worthy to be your followers
asa ho ingkon rimang torsa on~then you have to read this story
asa ho lompa indahan mosok musem~so you can cook charred rice too
asa hu patangkas jo rampak ama~Let me check with you first
asa hulean ho soara damo au~Let me give you my sweet voice
asa i dok jogi alai guga~let's say strong. even though it's gone.
asa isi sidalian bahen mulak muse~so that there is a reason to go home again
asa isi sidalian di mulak muse~so that there is a reason to go home again
asa jala pasupasu sagi humaliang hita~to be a blessing to those around us
asa lam ditanda abahan batak on~so that this Batak culture becomes better known
asa las daging on udan udan~let the body warm this rain rain
asa luhut mulak tudos tupa hatiha~so that everything returns to how it was before
asa mamintor diain tondimi tu ginjang~so that your spirit will immediately be lifted upwards
asa mangalehon diri ansiat sisean tuhan~to surrender yourself as a disciple of God
asa marsiajar dohot hobas dohot pintor~to study hard and honestly
asa marsogot hita ndada diloas masuk~so that tomorrow we won't be allowed in
asa na isi adong ma haulion~then what exists is beauty
asa nasida naeng tartuktuk dohot pidom~then they will stumble and be hurt
asa nasida sadasa na lulu bonana~Let them find the source themselves
asa ndada au topari ho annon~so I don't slap you later
asa ndada gabe anak na mansoadahon~so as not to become a disobedient child
asa ra mardomu pangurupion rap hami~so you want to join our service
asa saut ma jolma na mala~then be a generous person
asa tama hami di adopan hami~so that we are worthy before us
asa tudos sa hea hinan marnatal~so it's like it was Christmas before
asa unang di ganggu begu ganjang~so as not to be disturbed by the long ghost
asa unang gabe polisi hita on~so don't be our police
asal benget tangkas naeng gabe pasupasu~as long as you persevere it will definitely be a blessing
asal ho boto ho tongtong nirohahu~Just so you know, you are always in my heart
asal ho las roha au paloas~As long as you're happy, I'll allow it
asal ma unang holan angan angan~Just don't just wishful thinking
asal unang jolma asing na manggotil~just don't let someone else harvest it
asam ma au salomo roha mi~Judge me as you wish
asi ansiat ni ihotihot na mangorohon~love as a bond that unites
asi au naung nipihon au ni~darling, I've been dreaming about it
asi au rampak ho ai tundal~Darling, I and you are the opposite
asi habarmu olo unang bahen lomos~Tell me how you are, don't worry
asi habarmu olo unang bahen munik~Tell me your news, don't think about it
asi habarmu olo unang bahen pikkiran~Give me your news, don't make up your mind
asi loni annon ambolong pisang ni~It's a shame that the banana will be wasted later
asi ma dalan tigor mi tuhan~Give me a straight path, God
asi ndada mangalului naniomo dirina sadasa~love does not seek its own gain,
asi ni dianggapi dohot unang digabusi~love is guarded and don't be lied to
asi roha asi au on bene~sorry darling, I'm tired
asi roha ho di gabusi torus~I'm sorry you keep being lied to
asi roha loni sasadaon hundul sa~I feel sorry for sitting alone
asi roha mi anggo songoi torus~I'm sorry if it continues like that
asi roha sa ma holong hu~I'm sorry, my love
asi sadihari ho sun au topot~darling, when are you ready, I'll propose
asing inganan asing angkup tudos ilik~another place another partner, like a lizard
ate ai ho bidadari ndang marhabong~no, you are an angel without wings
ate hagogoon alai taronjar sian roha~not strength but ability
ate sian hauma alai sian roha~not from the rice fields but from the heart
au adongma sisean na pangalaho nadenggan~I am a good student
au anak sikkola minggu kalas bajar~I'm a Sunday school student in the youth class
au angsur sabulan saratus ribu rupia~I pay one hundred thousand rupiah a month in installments
au arop ho sonang sopola au~I hope you are happy without me
au arop sihol on naeng mapisar~I hope this longing will be resolved
au asi ho ndada mida bohimi~I love you don't see your appearance
au bege isi duiung di ambar~I heard there were mermaids in the pond
au beha burjuna na puna parpestaan~I think it's good to have a celebration
au biar au ansiat habalian tagasmu~I'm afraid I'm an outlet for your lust
au bias andorang ho manguhal ibana~I hate when you talk about him
au bias maradong di humaliang hamuna~I hate being around you guys
au bias sahali anggo naung dihansiti~I really hate it when I've been hurt
au bojok sarupa na i hatai~I'm confused by what you're saying
au boto alai naung salpu menak~I know, but I'm already comfortable
au boto holan pompar sian pomparan~I know it's just hereditary
au bura ho saut batu sissin~I curse you to become a ring stone
au dang boi ihut tu san~I can't go there
au dang olo marbadai, nunga borngin~I don't want to fight, it's late
au dang pulang sampe tammat sikkola~I didn't go home until I finished school
au denggan denggan ondeng boha baritam~I'm fine, how are you?
au di bali rampak ama hu~I was kicked out by my father
au di jakarta manang haliang ondeng~I'm in Jakarta or just traveling around
au di suga di kota sa~I'm a thorn in his city
au dibereng angkup ompung boru hu~I was visited by my grandmother
au dohot ina lao tu onan~my mother and I went to the market
au dohot ito sai simpan dirohami~I and men's greetings to women's siblings so you keep them in your heart
au dohoti aha na ho ra~I will follow what you want
au elekelek ampuni au au sumolsol~I beg you to forgive me I'm sorry
au elekelek baragas lao patandahon diri~I ask permission to introduce myself
au giot loni au puna nini~I wish I could have great-grandchildren
au giot mangagahon paduahon jolma matua~I want to make my parents proud
au giot mangaririt anak boru nahinaholongan~I want to propose to your majesty's daughter
au giot marbogas denggan dohot tondongmu~I want to be on good terms with your family
au giot parbogason on i paandar~I want this relationship to be clarified
au giot raphon ho saumur ngolu~I want to be with you for life
au giot sahali mangadopi ulaon ni~I really want to attend that party
au giot saut boruboru sada sadado~I want to be the only woman
au giot sipatudu dalan marbahasa japang~I want a Japanese speaking guide.
au hapian ho jogi di tembak~I salute you, you are strong in shooting
au hira angkang naung sae turgasna~I think my brother has finished his work
au hira naung lupa sarupa tulangna~I thought he had forgotten about his uncle
au hoga hamuna isi di son~I'm glad you're here
au holan anture hatigoran sian sasahalak~I just need honesty from someone
au holan asi roha mamereng ho~I'm just sorry to see you
au holan boi sip bagas ngoluhu~I can only be silent in my life
au holan inganan parbonjoran mi ondeng~I'm just your stopover
au holan mangalumbahon tu luhut pedan~I just remind all friends
au holan marsiajar mangondingi hasusaon hu~I just learned to cover up my troubles
au holan maruhom diri bagas hasandirionhu~I just stay in my solitude
au holan ndada ra mangaehon lungunan~I just don't want to feel lonely
au holan pangisi tingki rumar mi~I'm just filling your free time
au holong hamuna mardua ama inonghu~I love you both my father and mother
au holong ho agan holang manolai~I love you even though the distance is apart
au holong ho ate holong artami~I love you, not your wealth
au holong ho ate holong artami~I love you, not your wealth
au holong ho ate holong artami~I love you, not your wealth
au holong ho na manjaha on~I love you who read this
au holong ibana ina ingkon manghorasi~I love him, mother must approve
au hosing siamun buhai manapu bilut~I turned right, started sweeping the room.
au ida ho tudos jolma hasusaon~I see you look like you're in trouble
au ida isi haleheon bagas ngolum~I see there is a mistake in your life
au ida pangkat mi ndada marguna~I see your status is useless
au ida tarlobi hian judul sa~I looked at the title first
au ihut tuhan salelengna ihut tuhan~I follow God forever follow God
au jolma jaua ate jolma marmarga~I'm Javanese, not a surname
au lao maridi alai nunga borngin~I want to take a shower but it's already late
au laos tilhang alai nari marparange~I'm naughty but still moral
au las roha mida jolma omar~I love seeing people confused
au las roha sahali marbinege baritana~I am very happy to hear the news
au loja dohot luhut hasabamon on~I'm tired of all this patience
au lomo bajum sirimpuson mi tagasmu~I like your clothes, your fingers, your taste
au lomo dohot ho beha nimmu~I like you, what do you think
au lomo eol ho bagas lumban~I like your style in village language
au lomo ho alai ho gomuk~I like you, but you are fat
au lomo lua lua di porlak~I like running in the park
au lomo panganon bahenan dainang tarsinta~I like food made by my beloved mother
au lupa mandungoi ho nangkin manogot~I forgot to wake you up this morning
au ma na mamillitmu gabe saripehu~I was the one who chose you to be my wife
au ma na mamuntarhon galas ido~I was the one who broke the glass.
au ma na naeng manghunti goarmu~I am the one who will uphold your name
au ma saingkondo sali hepeng mi~I should borrow your money
au ma topik tingki salpu mi~I am a fragment of your past
au mambias mi alai au manghaholongimu~I hate you but I love you
au mamereng ho muse tarida marlinang~I saw you again looking radiant
au mamorluhon pangurupionmu urupi urupi au~I need your help please help me
au mamorluhon tingki saleleng dua ari~I need two days
au manaeki motor pareakhon sitasiun kareta~I took the car to the train station
au managam mi marpangkean tudos on~I'm waiting for you to dress like this
au manaili tu pudi baling hambirang~I looked back, crooked to the left
au mangahap maradong di pistik sonang~I feel like I'm at a safe point
au mangahap ndada marapiapi ari on~I feel uninspired today
au mangahap targotap sian siulubalang ari~I felt disconnected from the earth
au mangan saotik asa hot lihi~I eat little to stay slim
au mangangguk mangandung tuho daga... tuhan~I cry wailing for you oh God
au mangangguk ndada tolap tumaon iburu~I cried, unable to hold back my jealousy
au mangarihon pangalaho denggan dohot tondongmu~I have good faith with your family
au mangasi ho di bagas tuhan~I love you in God
au mangatim be tingki raphon ho~I enjoy every moment with you
au manggosok usa jambulan abara hu~I rubbed my shoulder hair
au manghaholongi ho aganan ho ginonggomanna~I love you even though you are his
au manghaholongi mi ate alani pardagingon~I love you not because of physical things
au manghaholongi mi sasara so so~I love you secretly
au manghaholongimu alai hamu do ndada~I love you but you don't
au manghaholongimu ari on dohot satorusna~I love you today and always
au manghaholongimu dohot satulus roha hu~I love you with all my heart
au manghapian haganupan na isi tuho~I like everything you have
au manghatai bahasa batak sip ho~I speak your silent Batak language
au mangumma loakon naeng busbus manjadi~I smell stupidity about to happen
au mansut muse alai mullop muse~I melted again. but it appeared again
au manungkun andorang emper naung longo~I asked when the terrace was empty,
au marhosa tudos pasombuhon sada lao~I breathe like I'm letting something go
au marlas ni roha dungkon siaginon~I rejoice after suffering
au marsangkap gabe amangamangmu na denggan~I intend to be your good husband
au marsiajar di jala sahalak parhapistaran~I studied to become a scientist.
au martahi di mussat jabu marsogot~I plan to move house tomorrow.
au martahi ra saut pandaoni tabutabu~I dream of becoming a gynecologist
au martolon ndada tulus portibi haholomon~I swear I will not be sincere in the afterlife
au martuani tu tuhan ginjang haroroanmu~I thank God for your presence
au martugan tu meja na asing~I turned to another table
au masihol job masihol i parrohahon~I miss Job. miss being watched
au masuk di marsonang las roha~I came in to have fun
au meam satur alona jorbut jorbut~I played chess against a scary opponent
au mirdong ra modom jo dada~I'm dizzy, I want to sleep first. bye
au mirdong ra modom ondeng dada~I'm dizzy, I just want to sleep. bye
au mulak di santokin ate salelengna~I'm going home for a while, not forever
au muse dabu holong susa dipatorang~I'm in love again. hard to explain
au muse i jabu marbahudung hinan~I'm just at home for now
au muse mangunjun baju uarna rara~I'm trying on a red shirt
au muse marsiajar manghamsarhon bahasa batak~I'm still learning to speak Batak language
au muse suba baju uarna rara~I'm trying on a red shirt
au musem boto do holan ni~I also know that's all
au mutu dangol demi ho sonang~I'm willing to suffer for you to be happy
au mutu ibana dohot jolma asing~I'm willing to let him be with someone else
au na ngorngor tunduk sajo holong~I am the one who continues to move forward even though it is slow, just obey love
au naeng di hamaolhon anggo lagak~I will be appreciated if I am handsome
au naeng hophop on bahenmu asi~I will fight for this for you darling
au naeng ingot torus allam hamuna~I will always remember your insults
au naeng lao tu bariba an~I'll go to the other side
au naeng manghaholongimu dohot satulus rohahi~I will love you with all my heart
au naeng maniroi olap kabupaten garutan~I will explain about Asahan district
au naeng marjuang dohot sarahu sadasa~I will fight in my own way
au naeng patangkas sondang manaluhon haholomon~I will make sure the light defeats the darkness
au nangkin mangaririt bonar hepeng sada~I just asked for the spirit of one dollar
au nari aning mi dohot sabonarna~I'm still waiting for you honestly
au nari manghaholongimu unang ma sirang~I still love you, don't divorce
au naung loja dohot hangoluon on~I'm tired of this life
au naung martapian alai arsean muse~I've taken a shower but it's hot again
au naung pangimbung hian rampak ho~I'm so in love with you
au naung paradehon tas baju sipatu~I have prepared a shoe bag
au naung pinsang ho di jamot~I warned you to be alert
au naung sogo dohot pangalaho mi~I'm fed up with your behavior
au ndada ahaaha saut na paduahon~I'm fine being second
au ndada antus bahasa inggoris purba~I don't understand Eastern English
au ndada boi marbahasa dohot hamsar~I can't speak fluently
au ndada boi marhata aha aha~I can't say anything
au ndada boi ro i pestami~I can't come to your party
au ndada boi sopola ho asi~I can't be without you darling
au ndada boto alani naung diloplophon~I don't know because it's been included
au ndada garar olo ari on~I didn't make a deposit today
au ndada giot mandilat ise pe~I don't want to suck up to anyone
au ndada giot mida hamu dison~I don't want to see you here
au ndada hea margapgap tu amangamanghu~I never lie to my husband
au ndada huroa marrongkap dohot ho~I can't possibly be with you
au ndada ihut tu inganan parsatongkinan~I didn't go to the funeral
au ndada ihut tutung tutung manuk~I don't grill chicken
au ndada lomo hamu apala biraon~I don't like you being so presumptuous
au ndada mangaraphon tumpal aha pe~I didn't expect any reply
au ndada mangarti aha na dihatai~I don't understand what is being said
au ndada mangarti na ho sundur~I do not understand what are you talking about
au ndada marsaor dohot jolma loak~I don't hang out with stupid people
au ndada naeng lola jolma marhamlet~I won't bother people dating
au ndada naeng mangalului panggonti dirim~I will not look for a replacement for you
au ndada porlu maniroi tu hamu~I don't need to explain to you
au ndada pos dohot sintuhu mi~I'm not sure about your seriousness
au ndada ra mangingani ruang on~I don't want to occupy this space.
au ndada ra saut jolma patoluhon~I don't want to be a third person
au ndada sangajo panangko gombar tulang~I accidentally stole my uncle's picture
au ndang dohar manontuhon bagas ardo~I can't decide on the question
au ndang giot di poto muse~I don't want to be photographed anymore
au ndang hea rampa dohot ngolum~I never interfered with your life
au ndang mandodo on naeng manjadi~I didn't expect this to happen
au ndang mangarimpu naeng saut songonon~I didn't expect it would turn out like this
au ndang naeng lupa pambahenan mi~I will not forget your deeds
au ndang tolap muse manjalo sasudena~I can't take it all anymore
au ndang tudos na ho alimoshon~I'm not what you imagine
au ni tarhait dohot bahasa sa~I'm interested in the language
au nuaeng marumur sampulu opat taon~I am now fourteen years old
au obuk didandan begu ma ho~I'm your gimmick
au pa andorang marsipature bahasa hita~I'm preserving our language
au paima ho di gurat sae~I'll wait for you at the finish line
au paima paima ende na jama~I'm waiting for the song to come
au pala asi tu di ho~I really love you
au pala bias jolma jolma ansi~I really hate hypocritical people
au pala manghaholongi mi haholongan hu~I love you very much my beloved
au pala manghasiholi tata na jo~I really miss my old dad
au pandok musem unang radoti panangga~I also said don't keep a dog
au pangido tu tuhan ginjang panesa~I ask God for forgiveness
au paotootohon bagas parau dohot nasida~I cheated in the boat with them
au pe bonos tingki tudos on~I'm tired of situations like this
au pe boto ho naung malungun~I also know you've missed me
au pe jolma batak alai sina~I'm also Batak but Chinese
au pe losok mangalus sungkunsungkun ho~I'm too lazy to answer your question
au pillit siamun alani siamun todoan~I chose right because right is the choice
au porsuk au marsiajar au muba~I'm suffering. I learn. I changed
au porsuk hansit harat na posa~I suffer from severe bite pain
au puna hasomalon tahitahi au gabe~I have a hobby, my dream is to become
au puna sikkola on bongak hian~I have this school, it's really great
au ra alai nari diorai pamarenta~I want to but it's still prohibited by the government
au ra dirim na mandongani au~I want you to accompany me
au ra guruhon jo ende ni~I want to learn that song first
au ra ibana mangaramoti ho denggan~I want him to take good care of you
au ra manuhor situhoron tu onan~I want to shop at the market
au ra martandang hinan rampak hallethu~I want to date my boyfriend first
au ra martapian suda tu hauma~I want to take a shower after going to the rice fields
au ra meam hansit hapalana au~I want to play with my headache
au ra modom di pamenakhon pikkiran~I want to sleep to calm my mind
au ra modom namun di dahopanmu~I want to sleep, as long as it's in your arms
au ra modom olo asi umpamana~I want to sleep, honey, for example
au ra modom parjolo olo dada~I want to sleep first, okay?
au ra sada bagian olo asi~I want one portion, honey
au ra sohot sahatopna dohot ho~I want to marry you as soon as possible
au raterate alani dang adong hepeng~I'm confused because I don't have any money
au ris oto di ho otoi~I'm stupid enough for you to fool
au saep aning saut pandongani mi~I can't wait to be your companion
au saotik tarhirim mangose tembak ombashu~I was a little disappointed that I missed my target time
au sasintongna mangarahon ho mangan borngin~I'm actually inviting you to dinner
au satahi dohot, rap, raphon angkang~I agree with you brother
au saut ihut las roha mambegesa~I'm so happy to hear that
au saut lomo rampak itona tokke~I really like the boss's brother
au sihol damang au giot marjumpa~I miss dad I want to see him
au sihol dohot pamatang sahalak ina~I miss the figure of a mother
au sihol hutahu ingananhu metmet jo~I miss my village, where I grew up
au sihol marsiadu di inganan paraloan~I miss racing in the arena
au sihol parlakkuon mi na jo~I miss how you used to be
au sombu parbogason rosu rampak ho~I am satisfied with having an intimate relationship with you
au sonang andorang ho andar muse~I'm happy since you came back
au sorang i bortian inonghu goarna~I was born in my mother's womb
au sumolsol alai batin hu manjua~I'm sorry but my heart refuses
au sumolsol tarmangan tingki salpu mi~I'm sorry for being consumed by your past
au sunggul au holan habalian mi~I realize I'm just an outlet for you
au tagil ulu ho annon olo~I'll cut your head off later
au tarhatotong tu ho ansiat pedan~I admire you as a friend
au tarhiap sangga giot hu tompur~I was shocked when I almost crashed
au tarhiap upaupa sian ise on~I'm surprised who this gift is from
au tarnono bebe di bagas nipi~I fell asleep in a dream
au tohom mardalan tu odong sa~I firmly walked towards him
au tongtong boi di ngot mulak~I can always get back up
au tongtong dipatoru di be tak~I am humbled on every note
au tongtong raphon ho andorang ngoluhu~I am always with you all my life
au tongtong tarapul mida mi marende~I'm always entertained watching you sing
au tu siamun ho tu hambirang~I go right, you go left
au tuhor napuran on di onan~I bought this betel at the weekend
aut au boi hosing tu medan~I wish I could go back to the field
aut na barani pulut au inang~If anyone dares to get caught in the sap, I will greet the mother with respect and affection
aut sugarina au boi marhusor tingki~if I could turn back time
aut sugarina ho dison raphon au~if you were here with me
baba ho giot sahali au maribak~I really want to tear your mouth apart
baba ho hu asi tambon annon~I'll give you your mouth ass later
baba ho naung mansam binatang oto~Your mouth is like a stupid animal
babi di ompan ndang ra bosur~Pigs on bait don't want to be full
babi lulus on tongtong bahen bunsiton~This roast pork always fills you up
baen ma hasundaton jala batahi hamajuon~make failure into a whip of success
baen ma tali ido hait marhait~make the rope hooked
bagak bagak alai nengel ampun ama~beautiful, but deaf, sorry, father
bagak bagak gora gora ampun ama~beautiful, beautiful, shouting, I'm sorry, father
bagak ho lemes ho gomuk au~beautiful, you are smooth, you are fat, I am
bagak loni katua bunsit olo boltokna~That's cool, Chief, he has a big belly
bagak sahali anak borua marabit rara~what a beautiful girl in red
bagak sahali anggi parompuan au on~My little sister is so beautiful
bagak siminikna tudos ompung boru sa~Her granddaughter is beautiful like her grandmother
bagas pustaha turpuk tolu pulu lima~in verse thirty-five
bagas sarita holan bulan on manjadi~in history only this month happened
bagudung mate i bagas sopo eme~dead rat in the rice barn
bagudung piaraan ho disuru mangan duhutna~Your pet rat is told to eat the grass
bah boasa songoni si botak on~Wow, why is this bald guy like that?
bahasa batak di dia ho naposo~Batak language where are you young man?
bahasa batak giot dos bahasa japang~Batak language is almost similar to Japanese
bahasa batak musem ingkon di guruhon~Batak language must also be learned
bahasa batak ramot ginjang hatutubu anak~Batak language congratulations on the birth of a child
bahasa di sigaret gudang sira saringan~Batak language for salt cellar filter cigarettes
bahasa pakpak ndada tarpaboa muse dongan~Pakpak language is no longer spoken, friend
bahasa sa tok pala utokutok hu~The Batak language makes my brain dizzy
bahen aha ila saingkondo hita aga~why be embarrassed, we should be proud
bahen aha marjumpa anggo ujungna tarsirang~Why meet if we end up separated
bahen aha marsinta alai ndang saroha~What's the point of making love but not having the same heart?
bahen hamlet au marpadanma dohot ahu~make my boyfriend, promise me
bahen ma dirim tudos suansuanan eme~make yourself like a rice plant
bahen ma kedanmu on las roha~make your friend happy
bahen ma nipi mi saut hanataan~make your dreams come true
bahen ma salomom asal ho sonang~do whatever you like as long as you are happy
bahen tuhor parkakas sikkola anak au~to buy my child's school supplies
bahenan batak dang adong nang halus~There's nothing wrong with being made by Batak
bajar ndang dope sohot boi mangalompa~single, not married can cook.
baju didadang ai boasa di marlubang~Why do clothes get holes in the sun?
baju saragam hami maruarna bontar rara~Our uniforms are white and red
bal mata manggeneng dohot baba longang~the eyeballs are round and the mouth is gaping
balang jo unang tudos jotjot gonti~Be loyal first, don't change things often
balbal sikkola au naung karejo au~I'm not at school, I'm working
balga ae holong hu mandapothon ho~I have great love for you
balga hian gigi do ho boru~You girl have really big teeth
balga loni halung mi silang mi~your necklace is big, your cross
bali ni panjaja sibontar mata ni~expel the Dutch invaders
baliksa talu on mapultak ulu au~instead I lost... my head exploded
baltung pangke baen muse anak ho~penis is used for your child again
banda jo an isi babi luslus~There used to be a roast pig in the tomb
bangso batak tarbarita di sandok portibi~The Batak nation is famous throughout the world
baoa na pogos adong ma helam~the poor man is your son-in-law
baoa ni manungkun dohot tatapan ngali~the boy asked with a cold gaze
bapbap ompung doli unang asi malbangalbang~Beat Grandpa, don't give him any slack
bapbap ondeng asi dauk holi ibana~just beat him and give him soft bones
barang ise na marsintuhu dapotma ibana~whoever is serious, he will get it
barang na sega-sega saut mata pandaraman~junk becomes a livelihood
barani antong do ho pastap au~How dare you slap me?
baris baris ni gaja di rura~rows of elephants in the valley
barita olap solu naung puntar dua~the news about the canoe has broken in two
baru sorang madabu bara tu jabu~Newborn chocolate falls into the house
batak halus gale lambok manang pir~Batak language is smooth, weak, soft, or hard
batara bala bulan ima pangisi ni~The term for a figure who is strong, clever and brave, is just a filler for the month
batu arbing on tardapot turiturian lungun~This hanging stone has a sad story
be ari au marsiajar dohot benget~every day I study diligently
be ari hupanotnoti bohim tonggi sahali~Every day I look at your very sweet face
be au songonon tongtong ho saritai~Every time I do this you always tell me
be bulan opat hami marolophon paska~every fourth month we celebrate Easter
be loni au manghombar tangkas mabola~every time I got close, it would split
be loni hu hotuk pintu mi~every time I knock on your door
be marsangkap denggan tangkas disaritahon jo~Every good intention is bound to be disappointed first
be masala tangkas isi dalan haruarna~There is a way out of every problem
be na ngolu tangkas namnam mate~Everyone who lives must taste death
beha ari on aha ris torop~how is it today, is it quite lively?
beha boi ho marroha tudos ni~how can you think like that
beha daina balu martandang dohot dolidoli~what it's like for a widow to date a virgin
beha dohot sahitna aha naung malum~what about the disease, has it healed?
beha manang ulaon ni naung saut~So, did the party take place?
beha olo sarana asa ibana tangi~How can I make him sensitive?
beha on dainang hu pangido ulos~How about this. My mother asked for ulos.
beha on giot rittik au binahenna~How about this? I almost went crazy
beha on jadina anak anak hita~How will this happen to our children?
beha pasangaphon be surung jolma asing~how to appreciate each other's strengths.
beha sarahu lua sian luhut on~how do I run away from all this
beha tupa manjaha ondeng au gogot~how could it be possible for me to just read it?
bereng ma aha na naeng manjadi~see what will happen
beta ara au mangan dohot inum~come on, take me to eat and drink
beta bontis asa hatop hita mulak~Come on, come on, let's go home quickly
beta di borong sosar iboto parompuan~Come on, buy your sister's stall
beta di ida sosar iboto au~Come on, take a look at my brother's stall
beta hatop usehon hata sopisik sa~Come on, quickly spill the gossip
beta hita borngin mingguan dohot sabotol~let's have a weeknight with a bottle
beta hot ripe asi au tuho~Come on, let's get married, I love you
beta manuhor balanjo di haporluon jabu~let's go shopping for home needs
beta modom hita hasian naung borngin~Let's sleep, darling, it's late
betak do nagara on gabe uarar~is it possible for this country to be successful?
biar hona rimas rampak amang bibit~afraid of getting angry with Mr. Arif
biar tarbali hansit ngingina tu au~afraid of spreading the toothache to me
biarna annon angkang ndang das lebaran~I'm afraid my sister won't make it to Eid
biarna au isi sala rampak ho~I'm afraid I made a mistake with you
bias dohot sibuat muko sialap ingkau~hate tongue lickers
bibel aos loni paboahon hata sa~The Bible repeatedly tells its words
bibel di luhut anak di portibi~Bible for all children in the world
bibir mi ni tobal mansam babi~Your lips are thick like a pig's
bile ma na naeng porsan harugianna~it is small who will bear the loss
bingkas anak pomparan dengke ho on~You are the offspring of your fish
bingkas borua panipu hurang pantun sorta~You loser girl lacks manners
bingkas ho horong parsogo roha judas~You Judas haters
bingkas ho manisia jugul sa ho~You're a stupid human being
bingkas ho panangga luhut sumisi sumisi~You're all dogs, disperse, disperse
bingkas sa isi di diri sadasa~The cause is within yourself
binsan nari isi tampahan bahen hita~while there is still a chance for us
birong birong na tudos manjukjuk simalolonghi~black black that seemed to stand out to my eyes
bistok sahali ibana bebe dali sa~he's very clever at squeezing the milk
bisuk tudos ulok bontor tudos darapati~wise as a serpent, as innocent as a dove
boan au tu pasir baion urupi~take me to pandan beach please
boan au tu pasir pandan urup~take me to pandan sand help
boan jo sisir mu molo adong~Bring your comb first if you have one
boan ma au hudia ho ra~take me wherever you want
boan ma au mulak angkang asi~take me home dear brother
boan ma luhut ae marsala mi~take all your guilt with you
boasa adong gombar di inganan ho~why is there a picture at your place
boasa adong jolma mansogohon songon ho~Why do annoying humans like you exist?
boasa adong na imbar ari on~why is something different today
boasa ai ndang dope tutup asi~why isn't it closed yet?
boasa au ra soal rampak ho~Why, I want to debate with you
boasa boi mangarumpak janjela hita on~why did our window fall?
boasa boi ndada galak kareta ho~why won't your motorbike start?
boasa do hamuna di so sasudena~why are you all silent?
boasa hamuna dang boa tu au~why don't you tell me
boasa hamuna dang hea pasangaphon au~why do you never respect me
boasa hamuna dang olo nangkok kareta~why don't you guys want to take the train
boasa hamuna dang olo paboahon lapatanna?~why don't you want to tell me what it means?
boasa hamuna dang paboa tu ahu~why don't you tell me
boasa hamuna dang porsea tu ahu~why don't you believe me
boasa hamuna disan, lului inganan asing~why are you there, look for another place
boasa hamuna jungkat hian tu au~why are you mean to me?
boasa hamuna leleng hian nangkin lahona~Why did you guys take so long to leave?
boasa hamuna mengkel, pa au marsiajar~Why are you laughing, I'm learning
boasa hasundaton tongtong mardingkan di ahu~why failure is always on my side
boasa ho ndada ampin au ni~why don't you defend me?
boasa ho pala jongir rampak au~why are you so cruel to me
boasa holonghi boasa apala parlakkuon mi~why, my darling, why do you treat me like that?
boasa huroha anggo pangke bahasa indonesia~Why does it look like you're using Indonesian?
boasa huroha dang boi au mengkel~why can't I laugh?
boasa huroha? dang satuju dirim songoni?~why apparently? don't you agree with that?
boasa ibana sajahat ido dohot hadengganonsa~why is he so evil with his kindness
boasa imbaru tolu na dohar hualusi~Why can I only answer three?
boasa ingkon mardomu molo naeng nata~why meet if we are going to be separated
boasa ingkon mullop muse ae ni~why does that feeling have to come up again?
boasa ingkon nasida na tarpillit mengadap~why must those who are selected face it?
boasa jolma batak hombang goarna ganjang~Why do Batak people have long names on average?
boasa jolma batak tangkas matana gelleng~Why do Batak people have small eyes?
boasa jolma manungkun manghatai disuru sip~why do people ask to speak and are told to keep quiet
boasa ma ingkon mamangke pandokan balu~why do you have to use the term widow?
boasa mangharuarhon baju di di san~why put clothes there?
boasa manuk martahuak matana di tutup~why does the cock crow with its eyes closed?
boasa maol hian tugas hu on~why is this my job so bad?
boasa musem ho ndada porsea bolon~Why don't you believe Akbar?
boasa ndang ho tardokhon lambungna musem~why don't you mention the neighbors too
boasa obukmu ndada tota ho bahen~why do you make your hair unruly?
boasa pola au na di muningan~why should I be asked?
boasa saut hamu na ngalut dongan~Why are you so confused, friend?
boasa songonon pambahenan mi tu ahu~why are you doing this to me?
boasa tu gareja ndada pangke sere~why don't you wear gold to church?
boasaharoa ? au holan manungkun sajo~So what? I'm just asking
bodat i mambaen au gusar sajoÃƒÂ°Ã…Â¸Ã‹Å“Ã‚Â¤ÃƒÂ°Ã…Â¸Ã‹Å“Ã‚Â¤ÃƒÂ°Ã…Â¸Ã‹Å“Ã‚Â¤~The monkey just made me join
boha do tahe par jakarta on~How are people from the city of Jakarta?
boha ma on ndada boi modom~how come I can't sleep
boha ma siahapon hu nuaeng on~what is my fate now?
boha pe au bagihon mandapothon ho~whatever I give you
boha pe naeng hu olohon bahenmu~anything I will do for you
boha pe pangidoanmu tangkas au goki~Whatever your request I will definitely fulfill
boi bohi apus dohot tangan ias~You can wipe your face with clean hands
boi boi au dirimpu marguru maniru~, it could be considered an exercise in cheating
boi boi au dirimpu marguru maniru~It could be thought that I'm practicing cheating
boi do au pangido nomor taliponmu~may I have your telephone number?
boi do hita mardenggan tudos hinan~can we make up like before?
boi do ho huduru meam meam~can you go out and play?
boi do ho mamangke bahasa indonesia~can you use Indonesian?
boi do inum kopi annon botari~can you drink coffee this afternoon?
boi do ompung doli dahop ho~can grandpa hug you?
boi do tata roha alani saotik~usually disappointed because it's a little
boi dope manuhor sabotol tuak suling~you can still buy a bottle of distilled palm wine
boi dope manuhor sabotol tuak suling~you can still buy a bottle of distilled palm wine
boi ho ida na dia bohihu~can you see which one is my face
boi ma asi goarna jolma batak~I can love the name Batak people
boi ma pa tutur luhut boi~it's possible, everything can be arranged
boi manjonokisa di ndada manghorhon kalekale~can approach him so as not to influence friends
boi mate haporseaon jolma rap au~People's trust in me could die
boi musem di otootoi jolmajolma on~can these people be fooled?
boi sa au sali hepeng mi~I can borrow your money
boi sa ho pungkul sadia baoa~What time can you do it, Lanang?
boi sungkun daong didia ho tading~Can I ask where you live?
boido i pahou jolo, hinan, hian~usually stop first
bojok au mamillit ho manang ibana~I'm confused about choosing you or him
bolas annon angkang dahop di jabu~Can you hug me later at home?
bolas hami maribak dengke di son~can we catch fish here?
bolas huumma pardompahan dohot hurummu asi~I can kiss your forehead and cheeks darling
bolas ma sahali loni bahasa batak~it's okay to speak Batak language once in a while
bolis aha na taban iboto on~what devil is controlling this brother?
bolo sahalak boruboru andorang mangompa anak~when a woman is carrying a child
bona ni salak bona ni pinasa~basically salak is basically jackfruit
bonai arim dohot sarapan ate aropan~start your day with breakfast not hope
bonana aha ma au ndang mangarti~Basically I don't understand what
bonana borngin on ho ihut dalan~Basically, tonight you're going along
bonar agia holang papulikhon hita angkanghu~spirit even though the distance separates us my brother
bonar loja mi naeng gabe hatuaon~keep your spirits up... your tiredness will become good luck
bongak manghatai alai oto bagas mangalalushon~Great at talking but stupid at acting
bongka denggan tudos marbagi bolas dipadalan~good things like sharing can be done.
bongka on dibahen alani sang damang~This is because of his father
bongka targelleng na isi di hita~the smallest thing that we have
boni na tubu sopola au sangajo~a seed that grew without me intentionally
bonor ma asi au ndang amban~just be honest dear, I am okay
bonor ma asi unang gabusi au~Be honest darling, don't lie to me
bontor do ho dohot parbogason on~Are you sincere about this relationship?
bontor tudos darapati bisuk tudos ulok~sincere as a dove, as clever as a snake
borhat karejo tu pasir apotan jaua~leaving for work on the south coast of Java
borhat ma ho anaha tu sikkola~Go, my child, to school!
borhat pungkul sadia tu huta gaja~What time do you leave for the elephant village?
borngin jumahat ndada boi ihut mandohoti~Friday night cannot participate
borngin minggu lambang ndada puna holong~an empty Saturday night without love
borngin on didongani dohot sabotol sopi~tonight accompanied by a bottle of wine
borngin on ho ndada puna utokutok~tonight you have no brains
boru sagala sian dia hamuna ito?~girls, where do you guys greet your sisters?
borua bagak mangir ise na puna~beautiful beautiful girl who has it?
borua bagak unang di segai tulang~Don't spoil a beautiful girl, uncle
borua marimbulu ni puna pangimbung balga~That hairy girl has a big appetite
borua ndada andar ndada isi olo~girls are not clear there aren't any huh
borua on bagak dohot donda sahali~This girl is very beautiful and graceful
boruboru bongak dohot jogi di tondong~great and tough woman for the family
boruboru boruboru sibabi jalang boruboru siapul~prostitutes, comfort women
boruboru on bagak dohot donda sahali~This woman is very beautiful and graceful
boruboru on tongtong bagak dohot donda~this woman is always beautiful and graceful
botari hu tonahon sihol di inonghu~I leave my twilight to my mother
botari na ginagat panangga ma ni~that's the twilight of dog shit
botari naung halupahonon angkup ombun manogot~twilight has been forgotten by the morning dew
botari olo au ra garar kareta~In the afternoon, I want to pay for the train
boti ma barita hita ari on~that's our news today
boti ma marhorihori dinding ali au~that's my brief introduction
boto binatang panangga olo ni hamu~Do you know that dog is you?
boto do ho au andorang mirdong~do you know I'm dizzy?
botodo ho on i dia holong~do you know where this is darling
botohon sa bugang hona topik hansa~His arm was injured by broken glass.
botoma ngolu on tarsongon galapang padati~know that life is like a cart wheel
bou timus dengkena pe ndang isi~There is no smell of fish smoke either.
buat gota bagas haadongon tangan maraek~take the pulut with wet hands
buat ma une haporluon ari on~take it according to your needs today
buat parsaulian sa sian unjun on~take lessons from this test
buat sonduk ra mangan aha asi~Take a spoon, what do you want to eat, darling?
buhai ari on pagodang ma martuani~Starting today, be more grateful
buhai padaohon diri ate ise ise~started to distance himself from no one
buhai sogo rampak leak ula sa~starting to get fed up with his behavior
buktihon ho laos patut au pillit~prove that you are worthy of my choice
bulan jolo au salese luhut sa~Next month I will pay it all off
bulan juli tuhor anggo isi hepengna~Buy it in July if you have the money
bulan palimahon bagas bahasa batak digora~the fifth month in the Batak language is called
bulan tio marsiraraisan i ginjang an~the clear moon hangs above there..
bulung dohar di bahen tarup jabu~Leaves can be used as roofs for houses
bulung jambu batu dohot pisang batu~guava leaves and banana stones
bunga adong ma gombar halomoon ina~Flowers are mom's favorite picture
bunga na nunga melos diombus alogo~flowers that have withered in the wind
bunga na nunga melos tarullus alogo~flowers that have withered in the wind
bungkas sajo tu jakarta molo songoni~Just move to Jakarta then
buruon angkang naung dang adong hepeng~Hurry up, brother, I don't have any money anymore
busbus hamuna surathon paima aha muse~Register now, what are you waiting for?
butir penunjuk nama daerah manis manis~sweet sweet seeds
butuha hu hansit mangan lasiak ina~My stomach hurts from eating mother's chili
butuha sa gojong roha sa bongkak~His stomach was bloated and his liver was swollen
daga au saotik uas sangga dalan~oh, I got a little thirsty on the way
daga on gogot di au dokhon~oh this is hard for me to say
daga santabi sala tarnata ate abara~oh sorry, wrong, it turns out it's not the shoulder
daga suba hopi botik on angkang~Wow, try this Kates coffee, brother
daga tuhan ho na boto sasudena~oh my God you know everything
daga... unang boi ponggol annon ido~Wow, don't be disappointed then
daging au ngalian mohop soara rarak~my body ached with a hoarse voice
daging hipas alai parhepengon lea pogos~healthy body but poor finances
daging mi mate tondi mi ngolu~your body dies, your soul lives
daging mi merung sahali tudos harotas~Your body is as thin as paper
daging saut metmet naung matua itohu~My brother's body is getting smaller and older
dahop halang ulu ni isarahon au~hug the pillow like me
dahop ina tudos inganan sio bagihu~Mother's hug is like a shade for me
daina giot rambon sian portibi on~I feel like running away from this world
daina tudos manangihon punguan jolma batak~it feels like listening to a group of Batak people
daina tudos manangihon radio jolma batak~it feels like listening to hobo radio
dainang damang au masihol haolan hamuna~Mom, Dad, I miss your hugs
dainang ndada bagak dohot pala nariting~Mama is not beautiful and very fierce
dais aek ijurna dais i rungkungna~brush his saliva across his neck
dakdanak dakdanak on nari margait ondeng~This kid is still just joking
dakdanak kalas sada maradong di adaran~the first graders were on the field
dalan dalan huta ri mangan hassang~walking around the village eating peanuts
dalan dia na timbil umuli tuhan~which way is the best, God
dalan tu jolo salpu tu hambirang~walk forward then left
dalan tu ulaon las ni roha~way to safety
dalanan gok orbuk dohot saotik maronjat~the streets are full of ashes and a little crowded
dalanhu ndang sauli na ho pikkirhon~My path is not as beautiful as you think
dalani dalan mi hudalani dalan hu~Walk your way, I'll walk my way
dalani ngolu on dohot supingan dongan~live this life with a smile friends
dalihan gogona sandiri masarakat olope pamarenta~non-governmental organizations and government
dalihan na mandohoti ansiat pangulu parhepengon~institutions that act as financial intermediaries
damang au ansiat ni parkarejo partikulir~my father is a private employee
damang au muse mangompa pahompu sa~my father was holding his grandson
damang lobi pasonanghon anak sian ina~Fathers make their children happier than mothers
damang marsogot au ra tu kobun~Dad, tomorrow I want to go to the garden
damang tanom ampe ni serep hau~Dad planted the mat under the wood
damangna na repot markarejo di hauma~his father was busy working in the fields
damporna modom olo pungkul nasa on~It's nice to sleep at this time
dang adong be anggi banding na~there is no longer a sister comparison
dang adong hepeng anggo manjae damang~there is no money if you are independent, father
dang adong hepeng anggo pangke motor~there is no money if you use a car
dang adong hepeng angkang muse amang~I don't have any money anymore, father
dang adong hepeng bahen tuhor kopi~there is no money to buy coffee
dang adong hepeng dang laho timbul~no money does not want to go
dang adong hepeng dang timbul laho~no money does not want to go
dang adong hepeng di boli buku~no money to buy books
dang adong hepeng lao manuhor bensin~no money to buy petrol
dang adong hepeng muse lao mangan~no more money for food
dang adong hepeng ndada adong borua~no money no women
dang adong hepeng ngolu ndada menak~no money, life is not peaceful
dang adong hepeng pangido hepeng damang~no money ask for money father
dang adong hepenghi saut hansit uluhu~I don't have any money so my headache hurts
dang adong mardongan au di kalimantan~I have no friends in Kalimantan
dang adong muatan mulak tu sumatera~there is no return cargo to the island of Sumatra
dang adong na bisa mansut au~nothing can melt me
dang adong na jujur di portibion~no one is honest in this world
dang adong na jujur di portibion~no one is honest in this world
dang boi muba ibana loja au~I can't change him, I'm tired
dang di boan mate hepeng mi~Don't take your money with you
dang dibereng mata alai diboto roha~the eye cannot see but the heart knows
dang diida mata ale diida roha~not seen by the eye but seen by the heart
dang ho balos di libas na~you didn't reply at that time
dang muat mardongan be ate ito~It's not understandable to be friends whenever it's not a man's greeting to a woman's sibling
dang par lae rias i be??~Not a complement to the perpetrator of the matchmaker tree's brother-in-law
dang pola boa marsogot di putar~it's okay to play tomorrow
dang si juni hian tehe goarmu~No, in June, I lost your name
dang taboan au dohot ibana rohahi~I don't feel comfortable with him
dangdut tetap tetap langit asalkan angkara~dangdut tong tong sky but bala
dangdut tetap tetap langit asalkan biru~dangdut tong tong sky but it's bad
dangdut tong tong langit namun bala~Dangdut remains the sky as long as it's a song
dangol ngolu ho buhai sian nuaeng~Your life will be miserable from now on
dangol pala pande bagas margogoihon anggukangguk~the sadness is very deep and strengthens the crying
daoldaolon ho asi muse hansit olo~You're pale, darling, you're sick
darpada ho, karejo dang adong hepeng~than you, work no money
das andigan pe hita tongtong maraleale~we will always be friends forever
das nuaeng au nari marlambas roha~Until now I am still full of heart
das sadihari jolma bege allam ho~How long will people hear your insults?
dasingan mi naung nangkok sadia kilo~How many kilos have your scales gone up?
deba di ho deba di au~some for you some for me
demi baoa jogal donganmu ho lupahon~for the sake of your friend's delinquent man, you forget it
demi sangaum indahan dohot sampohul intan~for a bite of rice and a handful of jewels
denggan amang ama sadasa beha baritana~OK sir, how are you?
denggan daging olope tondi bagas narongko~both body and soul in hell
denggan denggan ho karejo disan da~It's good that you work there, right?
denggan dengganma disan karejo tutu tutu~it's good, it's good there, it's really working
denggan di bontean boi marhali hali~good at the port can be done many times
denggan hian bahen ubat asam lambung~It's good for stomach acid medicine
denggan muse puna ama pandita on~It's also good to have this pastor
denggan ringkot mokmok lagak silehon turgas~good, funny, fat, handsome, advisor
dengganma anggo ho nunga lao tammat~It's good if you want to finish
dengganma hasian ingot nasida asa angkang~It's good to remember them so bro
dengke omo tangkupanna somalna pinalolo lompan~The fish they catch are usually used as a side dish
dengke tutung laok hua siak tabo~grilled fish mixed with spicy sauce, delicious
derem ma tondim di lambung tuhan~rest your soul on God's side
di adopan tuhan di ngolu on~before God in this life
di aha ma hita mandandan parbogason~why are we in a relationship?
di an edang aha na jeges~what are the good tours there?
di ara bahasa batak tok ho~Invited to speak Batak language, you're dizzy
di ara mardomu ho ndada ra~asked to meet you don't want to
di ari paonomhon tuhan tompa manisia~On the sixth day God created man
di baea batak na hu nipihon~for the Batak man I dream of
di bagas dengke godang miak dengke~There is a lot of fish oil in fish
di bariba ni batang aek i~across from the water coffins
di di san isi suhul olo~There was an earthquake there
di di san langit di jujung~there the sky is upheld
di dia au dapothon angkang mi~where do I get your brother
di dia di si pinta maridi?~where does the person ask to take a shower?
di dia sa dainang salaoar hu~where is my mom's pants?
di dohar patupahon lompalompa na disangkapi~to be able to serve the dish in question
di ginjang aek adong dope jambatan~There is still a bridge above the water
di ginjang langit adong dope langit~Above the sky there is another sky
di ginjangna langit adong dope langit~above the sky there is still sky
di hangoluon hami di tingki jolo~in our future lives
di ise roha on tedak anggi~For whom this heart is open, sister
di jabu isi ndang dope dilompa~I have it at home, it hasn't been cooked yet
di jabu musem au muse hasusaon~I'm also having trouble at home
di lambung asing nasida tarasup mansoanso~on the other hand, they are threatened with unemployment
di lean boto gari hurang tutur~being told is even rude
di mamuji dohot ambil goar tuhan~to praise and glorify the name of God
di mandamei bonang bonang jumadihonsa kaen~to join threads together to make cloth
di mangarti on ansiat ni tumpalmu~to understand this as your gift
di manogot ari au borhat sikkola~in the morning I go to school
di manogot ari na logo on~on this sunny morning
di manomunomu raja di jaman hian~to welcome kings in ancient times
di manomunomu raja raja manang tamue~to welcome kings or guests
di na andar nang ansiat siapul~for those who attend even as entertainers
di ni hapala hami olo tuhan~for our leaders oh my god
di nuaeng molo ndada marpahu ringkot~for now if it's not that important
di nuaeng na ndada marpahu ringkot~for now that doesn't really matter
di olohon mardosa ndada dipadalan magopo~if it is done sinfully it is not done wastefully
di pangke ansiat ulaula panangkup dengke~used as a fishing tool
di pitu pulu ualu taon salpu~seventy-eight years ago
di radoti di son sabiji siingoton~stored here is a memory
di sada lambung nasida marsiajar marparange~on the one hand they learn to be moral
di sangaum indahan dohot sampohul barlian~for a bite of rice and a handful of diamonds
di sangga anak baea mangulahon parbagason~when the son gets married
di sasude ae laok aor sa~for all the mixed feelings
di tano dia damang mi ditanom~where is your father buried?
di tingkir tingkir sa hita nangkin~we looked at him earlier
di topi pasir do ibana martapian~on the edge of the sand he bathed
di unang das hita padalanhon bortik~so that we don't spread rumors
dia begu sa asa hu barobo~where is the ghost? let me catch it
dia boto isi himpu marsogot dianju~who knows if there will be a gathering tomorrow, that's understandable
dia boto isi himpu urupi dianju~who knows if there will be a gathering, please understand
dia hamuna pedan pedan beta marpungu~where are you friends, let's get together
dia ho poto ma jo bohim~Where are you, take a photo of your face first
dia huroa au barani arbis ibana~How could I dare offend him?
dia isi au mansam mansam di~where am I all kinds of things?
dia isi suda harbue mangan eme~where there is no rice, eat grain
dia mantan manisia maret tohonan tingki~where former humans march on the dignity of the times
dia siholmu mandapothon au sangga on~where do you miss me now?
diain palobihu timbo ditanom palobihu bagas~lifted too high buried too deep
diambat tolu panamun na mangido artana~was confronted by three robbers who demanded his property
diapas alani holong tongtong marsala holong~insulted because of love is always guilty of love
diarin ma asa dirimpu jolma sonang~Let it be so people think they are happy
diarin ondeng boasa saut tudos ni~just let it be why it's like that
dibahen angkup haleon ekonomi na ngotngot~caused by a prolonged economic crisis
dibuha ondeng ma tulang argana dison~Just open it uncle, the price is here
didia ho peak pa piso nangkin~where did you put the knife?
didia ho pungkul piga hita kaluar~where are you, what time do we go out
didia pistik hiap na naeng dipeakhon~Where is the fan point that will be placed?
dihambirang giot manungkunhon olap parhutaan targora~besides wanting to ask about the village
dijou anggo holan ondeng isi ulaula~Called if there's just work to do
dilambung mi au mangahap pala sonang~Near you I feel very happy
diombus di pinahan na naeng ditangkup~blown on the animal to be caught
dipaimbaru di ngolu tunduk hatongtongon jahoba~renewed to live according to God's decree
dipasiat angkup rumbungan antik angkup palito~filled with test tubes and lights
dipasupasu dohot di ondihon tuhan tongtong~Blessed and protected by God always
dipasupasu ma torus ho ompung boru~Bless you, grandma
dipasupasu tuhan be langka bagas parkarejoanmu~God bless every step in your work
dison au giot markato saotik mangonai~Here I want to tell you a little about
dison mata pandaraman sa adongma martani~Here the livelihood is farming
ditaon mula portibi longo marnidok nuaeng~It feels like the world has been quiet since it means now
dituhas ima pangalahona ndada arga hata~alleged that his behavior was inconsistent
dodot marsitaonon ginjang mondingna anggi on~Sorry to hear about the death of this younger sibling
dohar digadis di jonok buhit timbaho~can be sold near Tobacco Hill
dohar ma i bondar nari godang~There are still lots of them in the gutter
dohonon ma molo ho manghaholongi sa~say if you love him
dohot anggiat loja hita gabe tua~and may our tiredness be a blessing
dohot au manginona taralo dohot ido~and I feel challenged by that
dohot au pasombuhonmu marnida jambar dirihu~and I let you see a part of me
dohot au pe manghasiholi pamatang dirim~and I also miss your figure
dohot bohi daldal bollang tu pedan~with a sour face glared at his friend
dohot boi mananda partuturan pardonganon hita~and get to know our brotherly ties
dohot das sabulan laos di bontean~and arrived a month later at the dock
dohot do lae tu ujung batu~and kah brother-in-law to the end of the rock
dohot gabe saksi kristus diparngoluon nata~and be a witness for Christ in real life
dohot ganupan angkal sian roha umbagas~and all efforts from the deepest heart
dohot haua na maronjat dohot pinjil~with a tight and strange air
dohot ho hot ma di rohahi~and you remain in my heart
dohot holan mambolonghon tingki mi ondeng~and just waste your time
dohot hot olohon habisukon na ditontuhon~and continue to implement the established policies
dohot hu jalo hahuranganna jala tang~and I accept the flaws to be perfect
dohot hu ndang ambul di mangalupahonsa~and I can't forget it
dohot i ginjang dalihan dapur ido~and on the kitchen stove
dohot ido mandege hamamate demi hamamate~and he trampled death after death
dohot jalo asi tu guru panogu~and thanks to the supervising teacher
dohot mambahen manisia gabe anak lobu~and make people slaves
dohot mapeut santokin sian parbogason on~and temporarily detached from this relationship
dohot mauli bulung das anak nini~and be happy until your great-grandchildren
dohot menak inangmi di lung tanom~and rest in peace with your mother in the grave
dohot nandigan ujungna ho ingkon dohotsa~and if in the end you have to be with him
dohot ndada padalanhon parbadaan taru parsikkola~by not fighting between students
dohot oroanna na nuang denggan dagingna~with his pregnant fiancée
dohot pahean hosom bohi hurang modom~with dull clothes, sleep-deprived face
dohot patoruhu roha dohot sasude silangko~with humility and all shortcomings
dohot sandok taronjar sian roha mi~with all your abilities
dohot sasude rohana musem soso denggan~with all his attention and good advice
dohot sasude silangko na isi tuho~with all your shortcomings
dohot sian pangimbung portibi palua naposom~and from the lusts of the world deliver your servant.
dohot sondot nuaeng nari torus marudut~and it still continues today.
dohot tongtong mamahe bangko ulos batak~by always wearing the traditional Batak ulos
dohot tuhan naeng patupahon haporluon mi~and God will provide for your needs
dohoti ondeng parmeamanna salpu hita pamonang~just follow the game, then we win
dokhon ma ala dirim naung bias~say that you are bored
dolidoli ni mangogap dohot mamarentahon tu~the young man bluffed and ordered to
dolidoli parjolo na ro tu ngoluhu~the first man who came into my life
dongan batak hita ingkon marsi mangalumbahon~Our fellow Bataks must remind each other
dongan di baribahu mambahen tak marhusip~the friend next to me made a whispering tone
dongan ni si tunggul do ho?~Are you the stump's friend?
donganan ni asi andorang ibana porlu~the friend is affectionate when he needs to be
donganan ni ro andorang ibana porlu~the friend came when he needed it
dongani au di mandalani luhut on~accompany me through all this
dongani langka hu dohot tondonghu tuhan~accompany me and my family, God
dophon ondeng patung jolma tudos ni~just think of a statue of someone like that
dua ihur boraspati na marsi mardompak~two lizards facing each other
dungkon au balos ho gari mago~After I replied you disappeared
dungkon au mangontapi pasidinghon huhut pasangaphon~that's why I prevent avoid and appreciate
dungkon bangsona dibasabasahon hadameon dohot hadumaon~after his nation was blessed with security and prosperity,
dungkon das di porlak nasida manghatahatai~After arriving at the park they talked
dungkon giot gabe siparjehe dirihu sadasa~after almost, becoming a traitor myself
dungkon hita karejo jo imbaru boi~that's why we work first before we can
dungkon ho marusaha hinan unang losok~that's why you try first. do not be pessimistic
dungkon mahiang dohot ndada lohot dijama~Once it's dry and not sticky, hold it
dungkon ndada dohar dipadenggan tudos dimulana~after it cannot be repaired as before
dungkon saut borua ido unang pabandothu~So don't be itchy as a girl
dungkon sun mangan au hormat sikkola~After I'm ready to eat, I respect the school
dungkon tagan sikkola marsiajar na sintong~That's why you learn the right things when you go to school
dungkon unang hea saut linta tur~So don't ever be a loan shark
dungkon unang martandang rampak jolma medan~So don't date people from Medan
dungkoti marsogot naung isi deba hepengna~Try to have some money tomorrow
dungo dongan naung binsar mataniari ni~Wake up friends, the sun is rising
elekelek ho ungkap pintu roha hi~please open the door to my heart
elekelek santabi on tahina inum aha~Sorry, what do you mean by drinking?
ende batak na isi soara sulim~Batak songs with flute sounds
ende halomoon damang on au sihol~This is my father's favorite song, I miss it
ende manjonok maradi borngin anggiat tarapul~songs before the evening rest, hopefully entertained...
ende on mangalumbahon hu tu ama~This song reminds me of my father
ende on pala jeges di bege~This song is very beautiful to listen to
ende pujion di ruas na manghatindanghon~a song of praise for the witnessing congregation
ende pujion sisombaon di hamuliaon kristus~hymn, worship to the glory of Christ
ende putikhononhu bulan di ho seang~Batak song I pluck the moon for you darling
ende sa bahen nahinan ama tarsinta~The song is for my late beloved father
ende sian lomo na jalo asi~songs from fans who thank you
ende tarlengket adong ma ardang ina~the most beautiful song is mother's hum
eol ni digana ate ida jolma~Style is created, not seen by people
etong mundur ulaon imbaru bagas hangoluan~countdown to a new chapter in life
gabe diri na lobi denggan muse~become a better person
gabe jolma na sahala dohot marutokutok~become a wise and prudent person
gait engkel nuaeng tarbege tongam longo~the laughter now sounded loud and quiet
gampang i molo adong hepeng ÃƒÂ°Ã…Â¸Ã‚Â¤Ã‚Â£~It's easy if you have money
ganasna unang leleng leleng olo angkang~Don't be angry for long, bro
ganjang hian ma osang mi ido~Your chin is really long
ganup mandalanhon asi sian tuhan jesus~each of them carries out the love of the Lord Jesus
garar dua ondeng unang tagi muse~Just pay two, don't charge again
gari boraspati lapatanna habisukon dohot hamoraon~while lizard means wisdom and wealth
gari boraspati lapatanna hadumaon dohot hamoraon~while lizard means prosperity and wealth
gari boraspati lapatanna hagarangon dohot hamoraon~while lizard means courage and wealth
gari das hu umma tambon ho~I even kissed your ass
gari ho naung isi na asing~while you already have someone else
gari ibana naung isi boruboru asing~while he already has another woman
gari ina na nunga manubuhon au~even the mother who gave birth to me
gari ndada denggan au sangga on~while I'm not good at the moment
gari parhorasan sa nala tudos sulu~even his salvation shines like a torch
geleng gelenghu sekalian unang losok marsiajar~My children, don't be lazy about studying
ginjang luhut na ditahi ari on~for everything planned today
giot au ngaet loja au marlojong~I want to achieve, I'm tired of running
giot daina au mandokhon au sihol~I want to say, I miss you
giot daina lao tu nagari turiturian~I want to go to a fairy tale
giot gabe deba sian ardoan mi~want to be part of your business
giot hu lotak ulu utokutok mi~I want to poke your brain in the head
giot hupastap jolma jolma ansi ni~I want to slap those hypocrites
giot longa mate au humophop sa~I almost died fighting for it
giot ma marminggu unang lupa martangiang~Be diligent in worship, don't forget to pray
giot ma marsiajar asa annon hasea~Study hard so you will be successful
giot manginum sagalas tuak raphon ho~I want to drink a glass of palm wine with you
giot rap mulak alai biar sundat~want to be together again, but afraid of failure..
giot sahali au pukul isangisang ho~I really want to punch your jaw
giot saut ompung doli rara ni~almost became that red grandfather.
goar au deua au tading di~my name is god, i live in
goar au flora au sian batak~my name is flora i am from Batak
goar ho ingkon do unang sarupa~your name should not be out of tune
goar mi targorga jagar i rohahi~Your name is engraved beautifully in my heart
godang abatabat na hita ingkon bolusi~there are many obstacles that we have to overcome
godang abatabat ngolu na ingkon dibolus~there are many trials in life that must be overcome
godang balasting na ndada dohar dipasintong~many taxes are unjustified
godang diholangholang hita na hamat ala~Many of us think that
godang dohar suhat sa ompung doli~Grandpa got a lot of taro
godang hinorus maol na ndada hanjal~a lot of hard work is not in vain
godang jabu na sega alani suhul~many houses were damaged by the earthquake
godang jolma na mangarihon raksa hadatuon~Many people have shamanic knowledge
godang lehengna alai biar rampak jolma~He has a lot of behavior but is afraid of people
godang loni ma sungkunsungkun ho on~You've asked this question many times
godang loni panghulingmu torus ho porso~You talk a lot and you lie
godang loni sidalian baea baea ni~There are many reasons for that man
godang ma basabasam tu tondonghu tuhan~God bless you so much to my family
godang manghatai ho godang markassa ho~You talk a lot, you reflect a lot
godang mian memori hita tingki martandang~We have a lot of memories stored when we were dating
godang na manaili sakku manang hepengna~many look at their pockets or money
godang pangaluaran alai ndada isi pandapotan~lots of expenses but no income
godang panganon andorang ompung boru ro~lots of food since grandma came
godang panghulingmu na ndada hu mangarti~I don't understand a lot of what you say
godang paredangedang na ro di marnida~many tourists come to see
godang pedan na marhusip di pudi~many friends whispered behind my back
godang puna pedan godang antong bitik~I have lots of friends and lots of experience
godang sahali jolma na manesa pandapot~lots of people delete comments
godang silangko alai tuhan tongtong paganuphon~there are many shortcomings, but God always provides
gogona ni na habangsa na manorhon~The result is the one that determines
gok ndada olo sia pulu sada~full no yes ninety one
goki rohami dohot panghataion na sintong~fill your heart with true words
gombarmu na idaonhu i emper on~I saw your photo on this porch
gomgom mi ondeng na ra dipaolooloi~I just want to obey your orders
gomgomi ma ibana di hami tuhan~protect him for us God
gonti manuk ondeng panganon hu olo~Just replace my food with chicken, okay?
goragora angkang tu anggi baea baea~call older brother to younger brother
gota di lohothon di ranting hau~The sap is stuck to tree branches
gulmiton mangendat tu hambirang tu siamun~pulling movement from left to right
gumpal luhut ndada barani mandege lante~everyone was frozen and didn't dare step on the floor
gupak hambirang siamun rajut boi mago~machete left and right wallet can be lost
gurgari nasida dohot unang lean ampun~mess them up and show no mercy
guru manariashon ala marsogot pakansi orom~The teacher announced that tomorrow was a fasting holiday
guruhu buea tur alai au holong~my teacher is a land crocodile but I love it
habang ma au di bahen mi~I'll fly for you
habar na ribur saut tuat do~So the exciting news has come down, right?
habengeton dohot torus tarhurim tu tuhan~perseverance and continue to hope in God
habis urupi dainang mangalompa bahen ditigatigahon~finished helping mom cook to sell
habotna au holan inganan habalian lungunmu~sadly I'm just your sad escape
habotna sarapan manogot indahan ndada isi~sadly there is no rice breakfast
habut ni pala manggugai pardalanan hami~The fog really disturbed our journey
habut sogir di dakdanak nari metmet~The fog is dangerous for young children
hadengganon ndada boi marrongkap dohot hajahaton~good cannot be combined with evil
haduan angkangmu naeng mangalapi ho mulak~the day after tomorrow your brother will pick you home
hagaoron manombus sian banjar bangku pudi~a commotion penetrated from the back row of seats
hagiot ni roha dohot leak lakkudo~ambition and behavior
haholongi au asi das pudi ngolu~love me dear until the end of my life
haholongi au tudos amonghu manghaholongi au~love me like my father loves me
hahomion hinan rampak ama sada on~I studied with this father first
hahomion jo ho di tano batak~You first studied in Batak land
hahuasoon di manggomgomi portibi diholangholang duansa~power to rule the world between the two.
hahundulon nasida lobi tu sirarion sintuhu~their position is more like... formal meetings
hajongjongan mangmang na jogi bagas ngolum~express a strong determination in your life
halakna laos gonti naung guting ni~the person changed it and it was already dirty
halal mudarmi doge tihus bagas salimut~Your blood is halal, O enemy in a blanket
halilum tongtong torbang bagas roha niba~Your image always crosses my mind
halomoon na minar holan adong tuho~the joy of joy is only yours
hamaolhon ma marsibahen lomo ni rohana~cherish freedom
hamauliatehon aha na diarihon dohot didapot~be grateful for what you have and get
hami manjujui roha hami tu tuhan~we turn our hearts to god
hami maradong di dalanmu olo tuhan~We are on your way O Lord
hami marpahu sonang dohot marsillak portibi~we are too happy with the glitter of the world
hami martuani mangarihon jabu na ias~we are grateful to have a clean house
hami naeng galang dohot urupi hamuna~we will support and help you
hami naeng maniroi olap adat batak~we will explain about Batak customs
hami naung boto aha roha mi~we already know what you mean
hami rittik pa tarbali sian dainang~we're crazy, it's contagious from mom
hami santabi mulak ari buhai potang~We were excused from going home starting in the evening
hami sundati das isi boaboa saudutna~We are canceling until further notice
hami tarhinos sapata markarejo marpahu pir~we are exhausted from working too hard
hami tarsorang pinjil sian be jambarmu~we are born different from every part of you
hamlethu andorang hu boan bagas tangiang~I am carrying my girl in prayer
hamoraon lung dirim ndada hea suda~Your natural wealth never runs out
hamu adongma boruboru na au sonom~you are the woman I desire
hamu ma boruboru sada sadado nirohahu~you are the only woman in my heart
hamu ma na bagihon au hepeng~you are the one who gave me the money
hamu ma na tarjago tunduk hu~you are the greatest in my opinion
hamu ma pedan na marnidok hu~you are my special friend
hamu na manggarar siinumon au do~Did you pay for my drink?
hamuma sidalian au ngolu dihasiangan on~You are the reason I live in this world
hamuna boi ida sadia gaitna ibana~you can see how cute he is
hamuna pillit so manang au ponggol~Do you choose to remain silent or will I cut you off?
hamuna sura bangso hamuna ondeng dison~Do you think your tribe is the only one here?
handit ma au dohot ombun mi~lift me up with your clouds
hania borua timbil bagak sakota medan~The most beautiful girl in Medan
hansit daina anggo pangidoan di jua~It hurts when a request is rejected
hansit daina ngolu dihasiangan sopola mi~It hurts to live in a world without you
hansit hian anggo boi di dokkon~it really hurts if I can say that
hansit hu asi ndada hu patudu~I don't show my pain, darling
hansit ima na huhilalahon sangga on~that's the pain I feel right now
hansit loni na di matau on~I'm sick when I'm overseas
hansit luhut daginghu dibalbali jolma rittik~it hurts all over my body being beaten by a crazy person
hansit malumma au naung ndada jogi~I'm sick, get better, I can't stand it anymore
hansit nandigan hu ingot sangga torbang~It hurts when I remember when it happened
hansit roha lobi hatiha pangalehonon ditulak~hurt more when a gift is rejected
hansit roha marjabu balatuk dohot ibana~hurt to marry him
hansit rohahi ho tuhas tudos ni~It hurts my heart that you are accused like that
hansit sahali parlakkuon mi tu hu~Your treatment of me is very painful
hansit saut pande tagi on dongan~it hurts to be a collector, friend
hansit ulu au mamikkiri ngolu on~I have a headache thinking about this life
hansit ulu au mamikkiri ngolu on~I have a headache thinking about this life
hansit ulu hu marnida parange mi~I have a headache looking at your behavior
hansit ulu hu molo songonon torus~I'll get a headache if it goes on like this
hape au jo hea saut paniroi~apparently I used to be a supervisor
hape hatuaon andorang mardingkan tu ibana~apparently luck was on his side
hape ompung boru nona tuk alusna~Turns out grandma is senile. tired was the answer
hapian jolma medan mangendehon ende jaua~salute Medan people singing Javanese songs
hapuloan ndada naeng mambahen mi retes~Loneliness will not make you fragile
haroroan tamue sian huta na tais~arrival of guests from distant villages
haroroanhu dison laos ndada di parsinta~My presence here is indeed unwelcome
haroroanhu ndada hea di dophon isi~My presence was never acknowledged
haroroanhu tung ndang diparsinta angkup mi~My presence was really unexpected by you
haroroanmu holanma anganangan i bulan agustus~Your arrival is just a dream in August
haru bagas tingki na nunga sompit~especially in the limited time available
haru pabalgahon rongkoman une dasing on~Please enlarge the mold to this size.
haru sada na gabe alang alusna~let alone something that is his responsibility
haru todo tangan molo isi margana~Please show your hand if you have a surname
has targasip bagas menak na somal~easy to get caught up in the comfort of the ordinary??
hasalaan jolma saut bangso na hona~People's mistakes are the tribe that gets hit
hasangapon tondong adong ma na sumurung~Family honor comes first
hasea di mangamoti manompahon dohot manegai~useful for protecting, creating and destroying
hasea tongtong au annon di ranto~I will always be successful overseas
hasian au boto unang holan sip~tell me, don't just keep silent
hasian unang lupa sarapan manogot da~darling, don't forget to have breakfast
hasianna ho naung isi na arihon~Unfortunately you already have one
hasomalonhu marende aganan soarahu dang denggan~My hobby is singing even though my voice is not good
hasusaon sadari ris ma di sadari~One day's trouble is enough for one day
hata ama lulu harbue di dilompa~Dad said look for rice to cook
hata ampa buat anak imbaru sorang~wise words for newborn children
hata dengke nangkin na nuaeng naung~said the fish, which is now gone
hata hata mandulo jolma hansit bagas~words for visiting someone who is sick
hata hata mi sormin diri mi~Your words are your personal mirror
hata ho las roha saut soldadu~You said you liked being a soldier
hata ina pungga hata batak mi~Mother said to hone your Batak language
hata ina pungga hata batak mi~your foster mother said
hata jala manisia di pangoluhon hita~the word became flesh to give life to us
hata ni dolidoli na imbaru inum~said the men who had just been drinking
hata ompung boru eol eol ondeng~Grandma said just move
hata parompuan na marasal dengke ni~said the woman who came from the fish
hatahon jalo asi tu guru hita~say thank you to our teacher
hatana pangke bahasa indonesia ondeng panangga~he only speaks Indonesian, dog
hatiaan ari sangga on mansaima holom~The current weather forecast is very dark
hatop ma tonjan pa galas ni~Hurry up and take that glass
hatop malum unang taruk muse olo~Get well soon. Don't cough anymore
hatop malumma sahit mi ido ama~Get well soon from your illness, father
hatop malumma sahit mi ido amang~Get well soon from your illness, sir
hatop modom ho naung borngin on~hurry up and sleep tonight
hatop mulak hundul rampak inanginangmu dijabu~Come home quickly and sit with your wife at home
hatop saotik, anggo adong dope muse~Hurry up a bit, if there's any more
hatotong ho olo au boi bahasa~You're surprised I can speak the language
hau dabu ndang tais sian bonana~the tree fell not far from the tree
hau hau ni mosok sapata matutung~The tree was charred due to fire
haua rampak roha rimrim mohop on~The air and heart are both hot
haulion ho buat au dabu holong~Your beauty makes me fall in love
haulion na dipabagak dohot daging jogi~a beauty decorated with a strong body
hea angkang marhatai rampak pandaoni on~I've talked to this doctor before
hea au marnipi dirim diturbing ulok~I once dreamed that you were being bitten by a snake
hea isi halomoanhu di ndada tammat~I never wanted to pass
hepeng au boasa ndang dope ditongos~why hasn't my money been sent?
hepeng dohot tingki na pature haulion~money and time rule beauty
hepeng la na pature portibi on~Money is what rules this world
hepeng na ho radoti ni haruarhon~the money you save is spent
hepeng na naung tarpapungu sangga on~money that has been collected to date
hepeng ondeng na dipikkiran jolma angkang~The only thing people think about is money
hepeng ondeng na isi di utokmi~Money is all that's on your mind
hepeng rara barutuon bona ponot tipul~red money, the main lump of the water channel in the rice field is broken
hepeng sian inonghu nari nari godang~I still have a lot of money from my mother
hian hatiha tagan parhundul na mangingani~a long time ago when the people inhabited it
hian rampak ra ihut tu medan~I was going to go to the field
hilalahon mulak lompalompa huta antaran mi~taste your hometown food again
hinorus maol luluan hepeng di sinamot~working hard to earn money for a dowry
hipas do ho sadihari tu on~are you healthy, when will you come here?
hipas do ompung boru hita ni~our grandmother is healthy
hipas hipas anak bagas tabutabu ina~healthy healthy child, in the mother's womb
hipas hipas damang bagas tabutabu ina~"be healthy in your mother's womb"
hipas hipas damang bagas tabutabu ina~healthy, healthy child, in the mother's womb
hipas hipas di an olo angkanghu~stay healthy there, my brother
hipas hipas olo meme rampak tata~healthy and healthy, mom and dad
hipas ma ho ina ganjang umurmu~Be healthy, mother, live long
hipas ma tongtong ina hu asi~always be healthy my dear mother
hipas ma tongtong ina hu tarsinta~always be healthy my beloved mother
hira hira tingki aha ido olo~I wonder what moment that was
hirana ima na dohar mangiringi langkamu~I hope that's what can accompany your steps
hirimonna anggiat tuhan pasupasu hita tongtong~The hope is, may God bless us always
hita anju ondeng jolma rittik on~we just understand this crazy person
hita anture na las di butuha~we need something warm in the stomach
hita boi manganamnam panganon on rap~we can taste this food together
hita boi marsi manumpahi bagas mangguruhonsa~we can help each other learn it
hita bolahon i meja hiltung torus~we solve it at the round table and continue
hita bolusi lomo dohot bonos mardua~we go through joy and sorrow together
hita do nuaeng hita do marsogot~we'll do it now, we'll do it tomorrow
hita dohoti ondeng jo parmeamanna nasida~Let's just follow their game first
hita dongan saama ingkon marsi manghaholongi~We brothers must love each other
hita guruhon hian asa ndada sala~Let's study it first so we don't make mistakes
hita holan mangontapi asa hita tarpasiding~we just prevent it so we can avoid it
hita holan porlu mandaon di mabugang~we just need to get used to being hurt
hita ingkon bege soso jolma matua~we have to listen to our parents' advice
hita ingkon mangaramoti hagompison dohot haiason~we must maintain neatness and cleanliness
hita ingkon mangido santabi molo marsala~we must apologize if we are guilty.
hita ingkon mangoloi uhum na isi~we have to obey the existing regulations
hita ingkon marsada unang marsirang sursar~We must unite, not divide
hita jotjot loni mangalalapi parenta jahoba~We often neglect God's commands
hita manguhal aha au ndada antus~what are we discussing? I do not understand
hita na baruang jolma na mohop~we who bear hot people
hita na dijoha di ngolu manjae~we are required to live independently
hita na martahi tuhan na manorhon~We plan, God decides
hita naeng di hamaolhon anggo lagak~we will be appreciated if we are handsome
hita naeng di sungguli andorang halaoanna~we will be aware when he leaves
hita naung boi paradehon parkaro panampangan~we can now prepare the seeding process
hita nunga mardomu di inganan on~we have met at this place
hita nunga rap saleleng onom taon~we have been together for six years
hita paima mara on marujung olo~Let's wait for this disaster to end
hita patut aga dohot marlomo sinta~we should be proud and rejoice
hita porsea pa patu pa portibi~We believe we can conquer the world
hita ra maningkir tu jabu bonos~we want to go to the funeral home
hita tontu puna na umporlu bagas~We certainly have priorities
hita torus mamudun di parsadaan silom~we continue to connect in the Islamic community
ho adong ma boruboru umuli sabanua~you are the most beautiful woman in the world
ho adong ma sidalianhu marpogo ngolu~You are the reason I survive
ho ahaon na ho bahen on~what are you doing with this?
ho ajar jadi ma jolma marutokutok~you taught me to be a smart person
ho andar patiurhon ari ari au~You are here to brighten my day
ho andorang mangantikhon manang marsuru lao~you are testing or sending away
ho anggo hu asi unang mangalo~If I love you, don't fight
ho ardo kobun au ardo borua~You take care of the garden, I take care of the girls
ho bagak alai anggo rimas roa~you are beautiful but when you get angry you are ugly
ho bagak alai asi ugasan jolma~you are beautiful but love someone else's
ho bagak alai lomo lulu marbinereng~You are beautiful but like to seek attention
ho bagak alai ndada ugasan au~you are beautiful but not mine
ho bahen angkangmu on mangareap reap~You made your brother fly
ho bahen au on mangareap reap~You make me fly
ho bahen pusupusu au giot tanggal~You made my heart almost stop
ho bidadari ndang marhabong di hu~you are a wingless angel for me
ho boasa boi rambon sian jabu~why did you run away from home?
ho boasa ro tu bilut au~why did you come to my room
ho borua jaua dang porsea sajo~you Javanese girl, just don't believe it
ho borua jaua dang porsea sajo~You are a Javanese woman, don't believe it
ho boruboru na bagak dohot mangela~you are a beautiful and seductive woman
ho boto sahalak ma sara hupas~You know how the police work yourself
ho buri hinan ido pinggan dorunna~You wash the dirty dishes first
ho dapot nilai parsiajaran denggan hian~you get excellent grades in your studies
ho denggan sahali dohot ndada tois~you are very kind and not arrogant
ho didia aha ho puna panolangi~where are you, do you have backup
ho dilehon tampahan alai ndada pintor~You were given the opportunity but were not honest
ho dohar nomor au sian dia~where did you get my number?
ho handit hu diatas gunung batu~You lifted me above a rock
ho hea marpadan di tongtong balang~You once promised to always be faithful
ho hira lulu hepeng pangke tijur~You think you're looking for money using your spit
ho holan marmeam meam dohot mamparhaseanghon~you just play around and take advantage
ho ingkon aning parsingir das garar~You have to wait for the debtor to pay
ho ingkon godang hahomion tu au~You have a lot to learn from me
ho ingkon manggarar ae hansit rohahi~you have to pay for my hurt
ho ingkon ringgas karejoi angkula olo~You have to be diligent in exercising, okay?
ho ise au ndada tanda ho~who are you? I don't know you
ho isi didia anggi baea amangamanghu~where are you my little brother?
ho jolma na ndada dohar upaupa~You are the one who doesn't get gifts
ho jolma parjolo na timbil mokmok~you are the fattest person
ho jotjot di podomi jolma godang~You often sleep with lots of people
ho lao sangga ho maninggalhon bugang~You leave when you leave scars
ho lapati ondeng bagas bahasa batak~just interpret it in Batak language
ho lobi sian panogu na denggan~You are more than a good guide
ho lobi suman bodat dungkon markassa~you look more like a monkey. so look in the mirror
ho ma asal hangoluon tu ahu~You are the source of life for me
ho ma na manguba au songonon~You're the one who changed me like this
ho ma olo tuhan na nampuna~you are the God who owns it
ho ma parompuan umuli di rohahi~you are the most beautiful woman in my heart
ho mambahen hami huduru sian hatoropon~you make us stand out from the crowd
ho mandokhon biar tais sian hu~You said you were afraid to be away from me
ho mangajari au bongka na lilu~you taught me wrong things
ho mangarihon haporseaon di pature banuam~you have faith to rule your world
ho mangiran babi tu harangan jo~You hunt pigs in the forest first
ho muba dungkon sasudena hita bolusi~You've changed after everything we've been through
ho na marpadan ho na ose~You're the one who promised, you're the one who broke it
ho na sintong sintong au sintai~you are the one I really love
ho naung diruma aha ndang dope~are you home yet?
ho naung pala pistar marbahasa batak~You are already very proficient in Batak language
ho naung tuhor dasi rampak tahuluk~You've bought a tie and hat
ho ndada isi imbarna rampak panangga~You are no different from a dog
ho ndada mangae habiaran au on~You don't feel my anxiety
ho ndada mangarti pantun sorta olo~You don't understand manners, do you?
ho ndada tading di suga muse~you don't live in the thorns anymore
ho ndang boi lua sian hasalaanmu~You can't run from your mistakes
ho ndang dapot, dohar, topot pagopago~you don't get a percentage
ho ni ingkon di asi parsiajaran~you must be taught a lesson
ho ni marpahu repot dohot banuam~you are too busy with your world
ho nunga pandaoni pa dainang hu~You have healed my mother, right?
ho otur luhut damporna roha ho~you organize everything that pleases your heart
ho otur luhut satabo roha ho~You arrange everything to your heart's content
ho pahehe hu hot ma dison~You are my encouragement and stay here
ho pale au ho paspas au~you beat me, you slap me
ho parade ondeng jo siinumon ni~Just prepare the drink first
ho pargabus dohot panipu anak hinomit~you are a liar and a deceiver of the people
ho parompuan manang baoa lean panangkasion~whether you are a woman or a man, please explain
ho pos manang ho ugamo silom~Are you sure whether you are Muslim?
ho pusa au dohot ae marsala~you torture me with guilt
ho ra au danggur tu lombang~do you want me to throw you into a ravine?
ho ra hu boan pangke ende~Do you want me to help you use a song?
ho ra hupamate do oto loni~You want me to kill you, you idiot
ho ra juit muse rampak au~you want to be stupid with me again
ho ra ndada mangan huang au~don't you want to eat my nose?
ho ra ndada saut saut hamlethu~do you want to be my girlfriend?
ho ra tu gareja di martangiang~do you want to go to church to pray?
ho ringkothon sajoma modommu ni olo~Just make sure your sleep is important, okay?
ho ro manaroso sangga hami bugang~you came to attack when we were hurt
ho songon ulok jongkas dohot marbisa~you are like a cunning and poisonous snake
ho sorang marlapatan hita satorbang ma~you were born means we are the same age
ho tading didia nantuari ni dongan~Where did you live yesterday, friend?
ho tais tais mangaranto sian bariba~you're far away from the other side
ho tamba bagak sajo saonari hasian~You are even more beautiful now darling
ho tarida merung dohot bara sahali~you look so skinny and tan
ho tongtong mambahen ahu giot manontong~You always make me want to stay
ho umburju hian mauliateh tu sasudena~you are very kind, thank you for everything
ho unang jugul da di ruar~Don't be stubborn, okay?
ho unang jugul di san da~Don't be stubborn there, okay?
ho unang taru ateate rampak au~Don't put your feelings on me
ho ungkap bajum di mangohop pamatanghon~You take off your clothes to warm my body
ho usehon di pasidunghon ulaon mi~you devote to completing your work
hobas barang mi beta hita borhat~pack your things, let's go
hoga loni leleng ndada himpu tondong~I'm happy I haven't been with my family for a long time
holan au do dohot si anti~It's just me and the tree. The leaves are sour and used as an additional seasoning for fish dishes
holan bege jolma batak marhatai marnonang~just hear hobo people talking and chatting
holan boi mananda dohot sopola rahutan~can only know without attachment
holan boi mangapusi andora dohot saep~I can only rub my chest and be patient
holan boi urupi tangiang sian tais~I can only help pray from afar
holan dijaha ondeng ndada isi tumpal~just read it, no reply
holan dohar ditatap angkup masa pere~visible only to free mode
holan giot marsiajar dohot manunggu raksa~just want to learn and seek knowledge
holan giot marsitandaan au rampak ho~I just want to get to know you
holan habalangon na boi hami patupa~loyalty is all we can provide
holan ho sahalak pupus ni tondihu~you are my only lover
holan ibana na ambul mangalus luhut~only he can answer everything
holan imbus lilin ondeng hita olo~Let's just blow out the candles
holan inang do naboi suan tambun~Only greetings of respect and affection for the birth mother can be collected
holan jolma oto marutokutok tudos ni~only fools think like that
holan manompang alai mangahap tudos tokke~just hitchhiking but feel like a boss
holan ni anggo au pe boi~that's all, if I could too
holan parbue na boi lehononhu ma~fruit is all I can give ma
holan saotik na idaonhu sian ho~I've only seen a little of you
holan tangiang ina na timbil jago~only mother's prayers are the most effective
holan tu tuhan marpos ni roha~only in God hope
holan tuhan inganan pangondian na tongtong~only God is eternal refuge
holang ate pangambati di hita marsada~Distance is not a barrier for us to unite
holang ate saut pangambati parbogason hita~Distance is not a barrier to our relationship
holang holan pangambati ate di papulikhon~Distance is only a barrier, not a separation
holang holangholang hita ndada boi tarpasiat~the distance between us cannot be filled
holong abak ma au sopola manesa~love me without erasing
holong di diri sadasa ginjang parjuangan~self-love over struggle
holong hita lam leleng lam ganggang~Our love is getting more and more tenuous
holong hita sungkot holang dohot tingki~Our love is blocked by distance and time
holong hu on martopak sambola tangan~My love is one sided
holong hu sungkot panumpak ama mi~My love is hindered by your father's blessing
holong lobi maol sian ngolu au~darling is worth more than my life
holong na hu usung raphon ho~the love that I carry with you
holong na ndang boi au putik~love that I can't get
holong na ndang boi hu dungdung~love that I can't achieve
holong naso boi putik ho hi~My silent darling can pick you
holong ndada isi na goarna holong~Love? there is no such thing as love
holong ni sian roha na umbagas~love is from the deepest heart
holong ramun holangholang au dohot ho~forbidden love between me and you
hombar tu pustaha batak holan pomparan~According to the literature, Batak are only hereditary
horas aha habar masihol sahali tu~hello, how are you, miss you so much
horas paloas au marsitandaan dohot ho~hello, let me get to know you
horas pedan pedan hu na huhaholongi~hello my dear friends
horas ramot ro di pustaha soara~hello, welcome to the sound library
hot bonar dohot unang godang morongorong~keep your spirits up and don't complain too much
hot bonar dohot unang lupa martuani~Keep it up. and don't forget to be grateful
hot di hamauliatehon ginjang asi tuhan~still be grateful for God's grace
hot hamaolhon baoa agan holan gere~still respect men even if it's just a joke
hot ma ibana mandohoti rohana sadasa~he still follows his own wishes
hot ma ngolu agan ndang marhosa~still alive even if you can't breathe
hot ma pasihar gabe intan indonesia~keep shining as the jewel of Indonesia
hot ma raphon au unang martugan~stay with me don't switch
hot mangasanghon tuhan bagas sasude bongka~Keep relying on God in everything
hot mardongan olo das pudi ngolu~stay friends until the end of your life
hot saut na umuli tuau asi~Still be the best for me darling
hotor daging on karejo i adaran~My body shivers from working in the field
hu arop hita tongtong saleleng sa~I hope we last forever
hu danggur ho annon tu lombang~I'll throw you into the abyss
hu dapothon asi tuhan bagas dainang~I found God's love in mom
hu dohar arsak arsak na rampak~I got the same complaint
hu dondoni te baba mi annon~I'll fill your mouth with shit later
hu ebati jabu mi ripas ho~I came to your house and killed you
hu elekelek jadi ma angkup ngoluhu~I beg you to be my life partner
hu golom panghataionmu di mamunu ho~I take your word to kill you
hu ida dengke on saut masak~I see this fish is getting cooked
hu ida pipi ho mansam babi~I see your face like a pig
hu ido pipi ho mansam babi~I see your face like a pig
hu ingotdo punguan hami metmet hinan~I remember when our crowd was small
hu lamot ardo ardo nantuari dohotsa~I discussed yesterday's questions with him
hu lotak pa ulu ho annon~I'll poke your head later
hu ndada ra isi na ngotngot~I don't want anything to be painful
hu ongom tokkin tagan hu bondut~I sucked it for a moment before I swallowed it
hu pastap topari annon babami ni~I'll slap your mouth
hu patulus ho rampak parompuan ni~I'll let you be with that girl
hu ponggol musem ulu ho annon~I'll cut off your head too
hu ponsahon ma baba ho annon~I'll break your mouth later
hu ponsahon ma babami ni annon~I'll break your mouth later
hu rinsan boltokna annon anggo pajumpang~I'll tear his stomach when I find him
hu sangka musang hamu na dua~I'm very old palm sugar (regarding something old, for example your second grape
hu tangiang pa anggiat ho nengel~I pray that you will be deaf
hu tompur annon pintu jabu mi~I'll hit your door
hu topar annon baba mi ido~I'll punch you in the mouth
hu tuhor annon angka hata mi~I'll buy what you say later
hu tuhor dengke mi sada kilo~I'll buy a kilo of your fish
hu tutup bulan agustus mandok mauliate~I close the month of August saying thank you
hualusi ardo hurang sian dua minut~I answered the question in less than two minutes
hubahen rujiruji dohot raja batak ho~I'll make a calculation with your Batak king
hubereng bohi anakmi na apala jeges~I look at your child's face which is so beautiful
hudia ma naeng au degehon pathu~where will I plant my feet?
hudia ni jolmana ai di mago~Where did the humans disappear?
huduru musem bahasa batak nalilu hu~My lost Batak language also came out
huhut mangatim haulion pasir horsik bontar~and enjoy the beauty of the white sand beach
huhut marende marende di bibir pasir~while singing along to the beach
huingot tingki ni ho joujou goarna~I remember that time you called his name
hulului dalan umuli asa ndang panolsolion~I'm looking for the best way so that there are no regrets
hundul rampak hombang denggal rampak raja~Sit equally upright with the king
hundul rampak toruk denggal rampak timbo~Sit at the same low, straight at the same height
hundul rap alai mangarujak sian pudi~sit together but stab in the back
hunik angkup hunik birong angkup agong~yellow by turmeric, black by charcoal
hunsi hasea adong ma arga hata~the key to success is consistency
hupaias dohot sirimpuson paniroi meret muse~I clean it with my fingers. the supervisor left again
hupanotnoti tanohu lomak jagar manghitirhon tondi~I looked at my land, it was fertile and beautiful, shaking my soul
hupikkir sirsir soara hami tarnata sumbang~I thought when our voices turned out to be discordant
huroa au holan di intap marlinggom~maybe I'm just taking shelter
huroa marga lubis sa lobang bosol~maybe the lube is a boil hole
husiphon di alogo anggo ho sihol~whisper in the wind if you miss it
huta jabu hami ndada mangarihon rapan~Our home area has no trash
i ari na rampak maringanan i~on the same day took place at
i dondoni udan songonon tangkas pulha~in this kind of rain it will definitely collapse
i inganan na nampuna harajaon surgo~in the place where the kingdom of heaven belongs
i pardompahanna mambaen rupana tarbereng tonggi~on her forehead makes her face look cute.
ias ias jo ma au asi~Clean, clean first, I love you
iba mangula do torus tu ladang~I continue to hoe in the garden
ibana adong ma partano batoan ngoluhu~he is the fortress of my life
ibana borua denggan pantun dohot bagak~she is a good, polite and beautiful girl
ibana diranap lobi ansiat barang rangsa~he was seen more as a showpiece
ibana giot suman dohot dongan hu~he almost looks like my friend
ibana jolma na jabir bagas mamodai~he is a talkative person in giving advice
ibana langkup hu gotil sipareon sa~he cheated on me, I pinched his ear
ibana ma ngoluhu dohot surgo hu~he is my life and my heaven
ibana mamintor manorui pangituai na denggan~he went straight to a good character
ibana mampuna bangko hasomalan na jeges~he has good customs
ibana manaili au huhut mamalu matana~he looked at me while playing with his eyes
ibana mandungoi ho sian marnipi jagar~he wakes you up from a sweet dream
ibana manerbeng buku buku di tanganhu~he glanced at the book in my hand
ibana mangadonghon pesta mangan dohot siseanna~he held a banquet with his students.
ibana marpira tolor na pala balga~she lays very large eggs
ibana meam maraekaek tudos anak anak~he played muddy like a child
ibana na diensenghon ibana na mandabuhon~he who is proud is he who brings down
ibana na mangalean ibana na mangalap~he who gives he who takes
ibana na marsuru au padalanhon ni~he told me to do that
ibana naung sonang sahali mangadopi ho~He's very relaxed when facing you
ibana ondeng inum saotik mamintor patialaon~he just drank a little and immediately passed out
ibana pa naung ra mangalimbe hita~he already wanted to tell us
ibana pe naung di talipon inongna~He had already called his mother
ibana rap mi holan habalian nama~he's with you just an escape
ibana sa na manulangi au mangan~he's the one who feeds me
ibana salpu masuk tu bagas harungguan~he then entered the crowd
ibana tongtong martandang tu jabu tondong~he always came to the family house
ibana tongtong martandang tujabu hombar jabu~he always came to the neighbor's house
ibana ugasan hu jala au manghaholongina~he is mine and I love him
iboto sian dia ondeng saleleng on~sister from everywhere during this time
ida hami olo ama sian surgo~Look at us, O Father from Heaven
idaonhu ibana saotik soksok mamereng au~I saw he was a little annoyed to see me
idia inganan pandidihon binanga na tabo~where is a delicious river bathing place
ido adong ma jahoba na marhuaso~he is a powerful god
ido adong ma jahoba na marmudumudu~He is a God who guides
ido annon hu sesa. molo ingot~I'll delete it later if I remember
ido godang bumbunan eme dibalian ido~so many piles of rice in the fields
ido ibana diontang bagas ulaon haugamoon~He was invited to a religious event
ido mamangke marmansam ulaula di manggombar~he uses various tools to draw
ido mata muse momar sarupa ise~Who are those eyes wandering with?
ido na hupangido sian ho asi~that's what I ask of you darling
ido ojak motolotol dohot tolu patna~he stood teetering on three legs
ido ris di pahiandu marmata mamak~that's enough for the wide-eyed wanderer
ido? molo toho, hu paima gokhonna~period? If it's true, I'm waiting for the invitation
igungna mangalumbahon au di parompuan ni~Her nose reminds me of that woman
igungna tudos boruboru di tingki salpu~her nose was like that of women in the past
ijuk di ni ni hutur di~palm fiber at para goyang di
ilmu boi marsiajar didia sajo donganhu~Knowledge can be learned anywhere my friend
ima ho garapus hian ho on~That's why you're so careless
ima ibana na marlakku ndada marinsak~that is, he who acts blamelessly,
ima na di goarhon ajal tuhan~that's what is called God's destiny!
ima na sintong di adopan tuhan~that is what is right before God
ima namabiar biar i au bah~That's what I'm afraid of. That's me
ima tumpal sagi jolma na lahang~That is the reward for those who are greedy
imbar hian rampak dasingan pat mi~it's really different from the size of your feet
imbar ugamo sada roha bolas ma~It's okay to have different religions and one heart
imbaru gajian somal tar ganjang patna~just got a normal salary, it's a bit slow
imbaru lao martapian au boasa huroha~I was just about to take a shower, what happened?
imbaru nangkin habalian marmudar olo idaonhu~Just now the opponent was bleeding, I saw
imbaru sada taon mussat tu jakarta~Just one year moved to Jakarta
imbaru tolu pulu onom naung bilolangon~only thirty-six is already nervous
ina adong ma na manubuhon hu~mother is the one who gave birth to me
ina ama naung ndada manaili hu~My mother and father don't see me anymore
ina andorang aha nuaeng songgak boruna~mom what are you doing now! his daughter snapped.
ina baju rara ni pareman onan~The lady in red is a market thug
ina jaman nuaeng utokna diduru pareso~Today's mothers have brains out of control
ina na ingkon au sonanghon dihasiangan~mother who I must make happy in the world
ina patoranghon beha pidong ido habang~Mother explained how the bird flew
ina rampak anakna rampak ondeng pangalahona~Mother and child behave the same way
ina simatua na tongtong mangahap tarsahiti~mother-in-law who always feels hurt
inang au boi meam diruar dang~Ma, can I play outside?
inang modom da nunga borngin on~Mommy's sleeping tonight
inang uda manduda eme dohot losung~Aunt pounded rice in a mortar
indahan ido dipatupa i ginjang pinggan~The rice was served on a plate
indonesia jo marsi marporang holangholang huta~Indonesia used to fight each other between regions
inganan on timbil songe tangkang mas~This place is the most prone to robbers, bro
inganan timbaho sian hangsa manang perak~brass or silver tobacco holder
ingkon dipatudu tu matana imbaru boto~you have to show it to his eyes to know
ingkon do hita meret tu kota~should we go to town?
ingkon do ho sonangma galang naniolina~you should be happy. support his wife
ingkon do rurus tu siulubalang ari~must fall to earth
ingkon do sungkunsungkunmu hualusi na ringkot~should I answer your question which is funny
ingkon ho na saut pandongani hu~you have to be my companion
ingkon mangajar hagarangon unang saut bargak~You have to practice courage, don't be a coward
ingkon marsirang alani ndada dohar panumpak~had to separate because they couldn't get my blessing
ingkon na marumur sampulu pitu taon~must be seventeen years old
ingkon patuathon bonton daging ido marsak~having to lose weight is difficult
ingkon sadia loni au manganju sa~How many times do I have to admit it?
ingkon tembak na bahen mirdong gundar~You have to target, which makes you dizzy
ingot asi na birat godang dosana~Remember, darling, plump ones have a lot of sins
ingot diatas langit nari isi langit~Remember, there is still sky above the sky
ingot hita ngolu dihasiangan holan sahali~remember, we only live in this world once
ingot huta antaran olo angkang pangeran~Remember your hometown, Prince?
ingot ma dirihu ansiat pedan roha~remember me as a heart friend
ingot na nangkin botari hita sundur~Remember what we talked about this afternoon
ingot sungguli au annon sangga sahur~remember to wake me up at dawn
ingotma unang hea marmeam api dipudi~remember never play with fire behind your back
inonghu andorang manduda marata bulung gadong~my mother was pounding sweet potato leaves
inonghu asi na tongtong denggan roha~my dear mother who is always kind
inongna olo dang rampak hela jaua~Her mother doesn't want to be with her Javanese daughter-in-law
insipirasi olap alimos parjumpaon dohot dongan~inspiration about the meaning of encounters with others
inum dali jeges di utokutok hita~Drinking milk is good for our brain
iring huria mi masuk jabu mi~lead your people into your house
ise ma inonghu songon ate ibana~who is my mother, like it's not her
ise na jago son alo au~Who's the best here versus me
ise na lomo meaman binatang on~who likes this animal toy
ise na lomo remeng di son~who likes to fuss here
ise na mambahen ahu mangahap sonang~who makes me feel safe
ise na mangongkal das apala bagas~who dug so deep?
ise na marende parsinta bou bodat~Who sings that they want the smell of their armpits?
ise na naeng mangisi roha on~who will fill this heart
ise pareman sa au pale annon~I'll beat up who the thugs are later
ise sajo na naung ho podomi~anyone you've slept with
isi aha muse di adaran on~what's going on, again in this field
isi alona ro ondeng tu son~there is an opponent just come here
isi bonton manggirgir bagas langka langkahu~there was a heavy trembling in my steps
isi dua paniroi di be kalas~There are two supervisors in each class
isi gararan na ingkon digararhon muse~there are installments that must be paid again
isi jolma pados bangso dohot bangso~Some people equate ethnicity with nation
isi lobi godang tampahan martimbanghon pangajian~there is more opportunity than skill
isi ma bona sa pisik ni~there's a secret to it
isi marende paduadua mura la ni~There's an easy duet here
isi musem na goarna mangoloi hapala~there is also such a thing as obeying the leader
isi na arbing alai ate jomuran~there is hanging but not a clothesline
isi na lulu hata angkang umbang~Someone is looking for the word floating brother
isi na ojak denggal alai rais~there are those that stand tall but are neglected
isi na timbil bona manang ringkot~the most basic or important content
isi ombasna au mamillitmu saut pasanganhu~There comes a time when I choose you to be my partner
isi ombasna didia diri on mangalalushon~There are times when the self takes action
isi palito na ndang hea mellep~there is a light that never dims
isi pirus biar ra mulak huta~there is a virus afraid to go home
isi sa hassa di jabu mi~there is glass in your house
isi sada na bonana ndang ido~there's something that wasn't right at first
isi sopo ngolu isi lapo ngolu~there are living barns, there are living stalls.
isi sungkunsungkun na ndang dohar taralusi~there are questions that cannot be answered
isina ndang holan olap tahi nasida~the content is not only about their plans
itohu urupi hita saut tokke asuransi~my brother helps us become insurance agents
itomu ndada isi na au tanda~I don't know any of your brothers
jabu au tarampe diholangholang dua dalan~My house is located between two roads
jabu balatuk jolma ai di antoi~Why are people's households being interfered with?
jadi i buat eur jolma silom~then it was taken over by Muslims
jadi ma anak bangso na mangagahon~be a proud child of the nation
jadi ma bulus na ringkot sonang~be simple, the important thing is to be happy
jadi ma mata sagi na pitung~be eyes for the blind
jadi ma sandu unang saut sarindan~Be addicted, don't be a parasite
jadi ma sioloan di anak poso~be a role model for young people
jadi ma sipareon sagi na nengel~be an ear for the deaf
jadima tudos ranggiting unang tudos horbo~be like a bee, don't be like a buffalo
jaga ho hu ponggol ulu ho~Watch out, I'll cut off your head
jaga ho jumpa hu mate ho~watch out, you'll see me, you'll die
jaga ma posoposo ni das hatutubuna~take care of the baby until it is born
jaga mago ho i sulik bolis~Watch out, you've been kidnapped by Satan
jago ma anggo ndada tudos ni~it's good if it's not like that
jago ma unang dipasuman olo angkang~it's great, don't get used to it, brother
jala bahen hamu ma tambak hu~nets make you my grave
jalo asi ama naung di bagihon~Thank you sir for sharing
jalo asi amang tabe hipas tongtong~Thank you sir, always healthy greetings
jalo asi anggulimanna anggi hu bagak~Thank you for your words, my beautiful sister
jalo asi angkang hu ginjang siluana~Thank you my sister for the gift
jalo asi damang borum asi ho~Thank you dad, your daughter loves you
jalo asi di padengganhon sa angkang~Thank you for the improvement bro
jalo asi ginjang allam mi nangkin~Thank you for your insult earlier
jalo asi ginjang anggulimanna dohot hirimonna~Thank you for your words and hopes
jalo asi ginjang asi dohot hasianmi~thank you, for your love and affection
jalo asi ginjang haradeon na dilehon~thank you for your willingness to give
jalo asi ginjang padengganhon sa angkang~Thank you for the repair bro
jalo asi ginjang rohana angkang hu~Thank you for your attention, my brother
jalo asi ginjang sulusulu sian katua~Thank you for the instructions from the chairman
jalo asi godang ginjang panuhoran sa~Thank you very much for your purchase
jalo asi godang hami manganju sa~Thank you very much. we understand that
jalo asi godang naung hea tuli~Thank you very much for stopping by
jalo asi ho nunga mangajarhonhu hasabamon~Thank you for teaching me patience
jalo asi holi angguliman dohot tangiangni~Thank you for your words and prayers
jalo asi inang uda ginjang pangalehonna~Thank you aunt for the gift.
jalo asi meme nunga pabalgahon au~Thank you mom for raising me
jalo asi mulak i paima pestana~You're welcome. waiting for the party
jalo asi naung hea masuk dingoluhu~Thank you for coming into my life
jalo asi naung marburju roha itohu~Thank you for being kind, my brother
jalo asi ndada dirimpu pambahenan hasea~Thank you, unexpectedly successful business
jalo asi nunga mangondihon hami ina~Thank you for protecting us, mother
jalo asi nunga patulushon tangiang au~Thank you for answering my prayer
jalo asi nunga tuli diparngoluon hu~Thank you for stopping by in my life
jalo asi sahap naung au jalo~Thank you, I have received the stamp
jalo asi soaram jeges dohot marapiapi~Thank You. your voice is nice and passionate
jalo asi tarnata boi di lapatani~Thank you, it turns out it can be translated
jalo asi tu loloan laos sumurung~Thank you to all the attendees especially
jalo asi tuhan bahen luhut haburjuonmi~thank God for all your goodness
jalo asi tuhan ginjang martambana umurhu~thank God for increasing my age
jalo asi unang lupa siluana olo~Thank you, don't forget the prize
jalo ma au ito dohot lapatanan~Thank you for that and the translation
jalo ma santisanti pambuha sian hami~Please accept our opening offering
jalo ma siahapon ari on damang~accept fate today son
jama gonting angkang jogi jogi olo~Hold your waist tight, okay?
jama tanganhu asa au ndada gurgar~hold my hand so I don't fall apart
jama tanganhu jama gomos padan hita~hold my hand, hold tight to our promise
jaman sa manisia mamunten sian potongan~In those days, people judged by appearance
jambulan hailaan ho dobar aha nabung~Is your pubic hair thick or bald?
jarum pungkul nolnol di nomor sampulu~The clock's hands are pointing at ten
jeanai barani baranina ibana maminsang hu~damn how dare he punish me
jeges alai ndang sauli roha on~beautiful but not as beautiful as this heart
jeges jo ho bahen goarhu ni~It's good that you made my name first
jeges nangkin hu ida suratan mi~nice, I just saw your writing
jeges soarana katua ise na manghansitimu~The chairman has a good voice, who hurt you
jekket birong sian angkang dasingan aha~What size is your black jacket?
jellek ho loak ra oloan oto~You're shallow, you're stupid, you want to be stupid
jengeng hita ida babiat katua puna~It's scary when we see the leader's tiger
jesus kristus adong ma panogu au~Jesus Christ is my guide
jesus mangido nasida manghabarhon tu dongandonganna~Jesus asked them to tell their brothers
jesus na diutus tu bagas portibi~Jesus was sent into the world
jo aek timbung di bagas jabu~There used to be a waterfall inside the house
jo holan di topi nuaeng gok~Previously it was just on the edge, now it's full
jo ompung dolihu markarejo ansiat pandaoni~My grandfather used to work as a doctor
jogi tinggil ligat bontis hatop tarhipuhipu~strong responsive agile nimble fast speed
jolma batak timbul torus subang mundur~Batak people move forward and never retreat
jolma late ndada hea menak ngoluna~Envious people never have a peaceful life
jolma mangan pinasa au hona gotani~When people eat jackfruit, I get the sap
jolma mangan pinasa hita hona gotana~When people eat jackfruit, we get the sap
jolma matua ndada boi ajar anak~parents cannot educate children
jolma modom hami na marjuang dison~our sleeping people are the ones fighting here
jolma na ansi ra mangan dalihan~hypocritical people want to eat organizations
jolma na marutang au na mirdong~the person who owes me is the one who has a headache
jolma na saep mangatasi sahalak ulubalang~a patient person is more than a hero,
jolma na tarsumurung di bagas ngolu~special person in life
jolma ni laos ingkon dilean parsiajaran~That person really needs to be taught a lesson
jolma on dilehon roha pangido pusupusu~this person was given a heart asking for a heart
jolma oto pe tarlalap manjalo sulang~Even stupid people are lulled into accepting bribes.
jolma pogos talu sarupa na marmotor~poor people lose to those who drive cars
jolma porsea mangarihon pangkirimon na balga~Believers have great hope
jolo mulak ma au tu jakarta~Wait, I'll go home to Jakarta
jolo nidilat bibir asa didok hata~In front of me I lick my lips to say the word
jongir loni olo dirim ni olo~You're cruel, aren't you?
jora la tagan di jora pa~repent before repenting, right?
jora ma ho tagan dialap tuhan~Repent before God invites you
jorbut jullong di tonga partaonan logo~terrible floods in the middle of the dry season
jorbut loni hupaima ho sian manogot~sadistically I've been waiting for you since morning
jotjot ingkon mangorui pungkul modom sa~often have to reduce their sleep hours
jumpangi au di bagas nipi mi~meet me in your dreams
jungkat adong ma tihas ate potongan~Evil is in character, not appearance
jungkat adong ma tihas ate potongan~evil is a trait, not an appearance
juni i tanda ho dope on~June, I know you again
justeru alani ni ra pangido urupi~That's precisely why I wanted to ask for help
justeru au na pangido urupi on~I'm the one who asked for this help
karejo na ringgas asa godang upana~Work hard so you can get a lot of salary
karejo pir ndada naeng manjehei omo~hard work will not betray the results
kareta au sega dohot beha mangaduk~My motorbike is broken and how to fix it
karupuk siak tabo tulen jolma batak~Delicious spicy chips native to Batak people
kising ripe haha unang lolos mangan~Brother's future wife, don't forget to eat
kopi susu manogot sikkola potang potang~coffee milk tomorrow afternoon school afternoon
kopi susu manogot sikkola potang potang~coffee milk tomorrow afternoon school afternoon
kopi susu manogot sikkolat potang potang~coffee milk tomorrow afternoon chocolate afternoon
kopi susu manogot sikkolat potang potang~coffee milk tomorrow afternoon chocolate afternoon
laba ate au na ho bolong~Luckily it wasn't me you threw away
labana nari dilehon hanemnemon na lobi~Luckily I was given more patience
lada marupahon sala sada bumbu dapur~Pepper is one of the kitchen spices
lada marupahon sala sada bumbu dapur~Pepper is one of the kitchen spices
laho mamungka rohahi tondihu huhut tondihi~to build my heart, my soul and my spirit
lali tarsor ndada hea mamangsihon pangkat~Eagles almost never write statuses
lam bagak dungkon saut panggadis parbue~even more beautiful after becoming a fruit seller
lam bistok jolma lam godang pia~The smarter people are, the more jealous they are
lam dipasupasu tuhan dohot sandok tondong~increasingly blessed by God and the whole family
lam leleng lam suman sihapor losok~more and more like a lazy grasshopper
lamari ido ndada tartuhor angkup au~The cupboard was not purchased by me
lambok loni mida suasana tudos ni~It's cool to see an atmosphere like that
lampak buku etongan maninga uarna aha~what color is the cover of a mathematics book?
lamu ari lamu tarida bolang sa~Day by day it looks more and more striped
lamu ho patimbul lamu magigi au~The more you raise the more disgusted I am
lamu leleng ai mora jolma rittik~The longer it goes on, the more you become crazy
lamu leleng lamu godang eol sa~As time goes by, there are more and more styles
lan huulahon asal ho sonang boruhu~I will do anything as long as you are happy, my daughter
langkup ni sahit ndada isi tambarna~Cheating is a disease with no cure
lao an anggo ndada hupamate ho~Go there or I'll kill you
lao hudia hita tempo loni on~where are we going on holiday this time?
lao ma molo ho naung bangkol~Go if you don't want to
lao mangan alai on nunga borngin~I want to eat but it's already late
lao marlumba manang lao tu jabu~go racing or go home
lao sahat sadihari ho songon on~How long are you going to be like this?
lao tu tolping hita ari on~went to our cliff today
laoma ho hatop annon tarlambat ho~Go quickly, you'll be late
laoma mandao alani au jolma pogos~go away because I am poor
laoma molo haroroanhu gabe boban bahenmu~Go away if my presence is a burden for you
laos isi na papunguhon talipon tangan~there are indeed those who collect cellphones
laos isi roha hu rampak mi~then there is my heart with you
laos jolma batak juara bagas marmusik~Batak people are indeed champions in music
laos ndada boto do au hamletmu~I didn't know I was your boyfriend
laos ndada sonsang haulion ibana on~Her beauty has not faded
laos rampak goar ompung doli sa~also the same as his grandfather's name
lapatan jolma na dang boto mauliate~definition of an ungrateful person
lapatani ma aha na ho hatahon~translate what you say
lapatanna jahoba mamarentahon ibana di markarejo~meaning God ordered him to work
lapatanna pelean na mangalopi hatigoran tuhan~it means a sacrifice that asks for God's justice
las roha au boi mangarihonmu sahibulna~I'm glad I can have you completely
las roha boi mananda denggan dirim~nice to get to know you well
las roha hian nangkin marjumpang inang~I was so happy to meet mother
lasiak hasior hatumbar gambiri pege hunik~chili, galangal, coriander, candlenut, ginger, turmeric
lehonma au tampahan sahali on ondeng~just give me this once chance
lehonma hami pe haporseaon na porhot~give us also firm faith
leleng dohot benda bistok naeng marlakku~long and slow smart will take effect
leleng dohot benda tami naeng marlakku~long and slow the request will take effect
leleng leleng au antong ho tidos~For a long time, you oppressed me
leleng leleng au harat sipareon ho~I bit your ear for a long time
leleng leleng ragam barita hataon mu~It's been a long time since you've heard various news
leleng ndada isi nonangan dohot ibana~I haven't talked to him for a long time
lilin na nala mamalang mampartahanhon parungkilan~burning candles, inhibiting, sustaining, sadness
loashon tangan tuhan karejo holong hu~Let God's hand work my darling
lobi denggan au marbiasbias sian ho~I'd better stay away from you
lobi denggan ganasna pangke bahasa sadasa~It's better to be angry using your own language
lobi denggan hita manginum kopi hipas~it's better if we drink healthy coffee
lobi denggan lao sian di dipalao~it's better to leave than to be expelled
lobi denggan saut pogos martimbanghon mansoadahon~it is better to be poor than disobedient
loguna tabo dohot au pe lomo~the song is good and I like it too
loja au manahan mekkel tonga borngin~I'm tired of laughing in the middle of the night
loja au mandalani ngolu dohot manusia~I'm tired of living life with humans
loja hian au liat parange na~I'm so tired of seeing his behavior
loja huhilala na mandalani ngolu on~I'm tired of living this life
loja maoldo lonsam opat saut sada~his efforts add up to four into one
loja maoldo nomor opat saut sada~his hard work makes the number four become one
loja naung ngolu di parjalangan on~I'm tired of living abroad
loja on tung mambahen ahu gale~This tiredness really makes me weak
loja on tung mambahen ahu male~This tiredness really makes me hungry
lok ho rongkap naung di otur~It's up to you that your soul mate has been arranged
lok ma ra pandok aha musem~whatever you want to say
lok sajo ma dang adong pandapot~It's up to you, no input
lokma ari on tuhan na paganuphon~Let God be sufficient today
lokma au dabu dohot di parengkelhon~let me fall and be laughed at
lomo bonos holan diahap rap nasida~ups and downs are only experienced with them
lomo hian ma rampak sipatu on~I really like these shoes
lomo totong rampak jolma huta sadasa~I like to be surprised by the people in my own village
lompa ho suru parompuan manorui mi~I wonder if you should ask a woman to come to you
lompa pareman i ansi diririt udur~cook thugs tricked into asking for money...
lompan sa dengke rampak marata arum~The side dishes are fish and spinach
lompanna babi luslus asa tamba hipas~The side dish is roast pork so it's even healthier
longa nasabah ingkon dibalonghon hansit uluhu~half the customers had to be thrown away my headache
lonong i haolan sipatudu dalan ende~drowning in the arms of the song guide
lonsam hepengmu sada juta saratus ribu~your total money is one million one hundred thousand
losung hurummu supingmu mengkelmu mamansuthon rohahi~Your dimples, your smile, your laugh melts my heart
lotak ulum dungkon ido lao monggop~poke your head then go hide
luangon tutu ngolu hu au tardapotsa~my life is really bad. I was caught
lubang ni te ma sude i~the pit of filth is all that
luhut baga hansur songon topik hansa~all hopes shattered like broken glass
luhut dipungka dohot manuani tu tuhan~It all starts with thanking God
luhut holan ma tongosan na habangsa~everything is just an entrustment of power
luhut hu ulahon holan demi anak~I do everything just for the sake of the child
luhut jolma batak godang na sirang~Many Batak people are divorced
luhut lomos mi ho topi pa~You put aside all your worries, right?
luhut na denggan rodo sian tuhan~all good things come from God
luhut naeng hita bolusi mardua tongtong~we will get through everything together always
luhut naung jala alang alus pangondian~everything is the lawyer's responsibility
luhut naung tarlambat parsirangan naung manjadi~it was too late, the divorce had already happened
luhut olap hita holan torsa turiturian~everything about us is just a fairy tale
luhut panortor ris mambahen pangurdot tangan~all dancers just need to make hand movements
luhut sa pangke baju anak baju~all of them wear shirts
luhut tading siingoton mudu ma au~everything is just a memory, guide me
luhut tangkas isi dalan haruarna tuhan~God has a way out for everything
lulu daram di pardijabu di huta~earn a living for his wife in the village
lului au borua jolma tombis balerong~Find me a girl from Tanjung Balai
lului au hamlet jolma tombis balerong~Find me a girlfriend from Tanjung Balai
lumba meam marlumba rampak anak dongan~compete in racing with friends' children
lung dohot ho rampak rampak jeges~The universe and you are equally beautiful
lungun au ndada boi manalipon ibana~sad I couldn't call him
lungun dibondut sadasa dainang au tuk~I'm sad to be swallowed alone, mom, I'm tired
lungun loni idaonhu on torsa ma~I'm sad when I see this, tell me
lupahonma tahim dohot dohoti tahi tuhan~forget your plans and follow God's plan.
ma boi tanggal piga ta tuhor~what date can we buy?
maaphon au anggo au puna sala~forgive me if I have a mistake
maaphon au na naung mangalaosi padan~I'm sorry I broke my promise
mabiar au molo sibuk ho ito~I'm afraid if you're busy, Ito
maga silehon upaupa tarmanis sian luhut~the giver of the sweetest gifts of all
magigi au jumahana tudos anak ni~disgusted I read it like that child
mago hape naung lintun jolma on~missing, apparently this person has disappeared
mago muse jolma matua na mangondihon~lost again the parents who cared for him
magohon hasuharan dohot, rap, raphon marende~get rid of problems by singing
male alai dang olo mangan bonton~hungry, but don't want to eat anything heavy
male au ale malas mambuat indahan~I'm hungry and I feel like I'm lazy about making rice
male dang dope mangan sian manogot~hungry, haven't eaten since morning
male ra mangan ndada isi marata~hungry want to eat no vegetables
male ra mangan ndada puna marata~hungry want to eat don't have vegetables
malo bistok malo pantas pistar peam~clever clever fluent capable intelligent skilled
malo nai tubu ni boru sinaga~very clever descendant of Boru Sinaga
malo pa hata batak mi ido~Your Batak language is fluent, right?
malua sian ingoton ndada bagas pikkiran~out of memory; not in mind
malungun au mambege lagu na bah~I'm sad when I hear the song
malungun iba mambege lagu na bah~I'm sad when I hear the song
mamasang pargomgom uluni tot dohot singku~put on knee and elbow protectors
mambahen godang paredangedang giot mamereng ibana~makes many tourists want to see it
mameakhon paduahon palak botohonna tu hurum~put both palms to his cheeks
mamikkir polisi on ma iba saonari~thinking cop this is me now
mamintor boi saut hela ama sa~He could immediately become his father's son-in-law
mampuna dua jolma pardijabu bagak mangir~has two beautiful wives
mampuna simatua burju adong ma dohar~having good in-laws is a blessing
mana aha ho pe naung las~Go on, are you even warm?
manabur hadengganon dohot toguon simangot badia~sow goodness with the guidance of the holy spirit
managam mulak di tingkina tudos jo~looking forward to returning to the time like before
managam sabiji alusan na ndang tangkas~waiting for an uncertain answer
mananda asal dohot pangidoan ni porlu~knowing the origin and origin is necessary
manang au puna haporseaon na ris~Do I have enough faith?
manang damang tu kobun ari on~Did dad go to the garden today?
manang di gabe sahalak kristen sajati~whether to become a true Christian
manang hamu satahi dohot suratan on~Do you agree with this article?
manang hamuna hea padalanhon aktipitas targora~Have you ever done this activity?
manang hatigoran mambahen parbogason on marujung~Will honesty make this relationship end?
manang ho bias mandapothon au patuduma~do you hate me? show me
manang ho na impas angkup hu~or you are the one who disappeared by me
manang ho naung diburai ari on~have you been cursed at today?
manang ho ndada hea manongos poto~do you never send photos
manang ho ra pabalgahon ho puna~do you want to enlarge you have
manang iba do na ndada mangarti~or admit that he doesn't understand
manang isi na ditaon ho nuaeng~Is there anything you feel now?
manang isi sormin di jabu mi~Is there a mirror in your house?
manang martarombo dohot luluan parbogason iboto~aka talking and looking for sibling relationships
manang na boi mangondam hangoluon manisia~what could threaten human life
manang naung isi na asing niroham~Is there anything else in your heart?
manang naung saedo surat hatorangan tean~Has the inheritance certificate been completed?
manang pitolot bagas bahasa batak panosa~What is pencil in Batak language? Eraser
manang porlu hu endehon ende modom~Or do I need to sing a sleep song?
mandapothon ho naeng lehononhu saisi portibi~I will give you the whole world
mandasing taronjar sian roha jolma asing~measure the abilities of others
manektek aek mata au mamereng ibana~I shed tears when I saw it
manektek aek simalolonghi mambege ende on~I shed tears hearing this song
mangaehon marudutudut ungkil mandohoti tumpak manumpahi~feel, sustain, suffer, participate, help, assist
mangahap ndada patut di ise ise~feel unworthy of anyone
mangalualu dohot manang manduruk jabu hansit~sue and/or sue the hospital
mangalului las ni roha na tong~looking for eternal happiness
mangalului sada na mago sian saritamu~looking for something missing from your story
mangalumbahon ima jolma jotjot lupa bindu~reminded that people often forget articles
mangan jo an isi babi luslus~Eat first. There's roast pork there
mangan lasiak asa boi bahasa batak~Eat chilies so you can speak Batak language
mangan ma otik asa ndada hansit~Eat a little so you don't get sick
mangan mangan hita di jabu bolon~eat our meals in the great house
mangan modom marmeam dohot bolong lolo~eating, sleeping, playing and defecating
mangan na godang asa bosur ho~Eat a lot to fill you up
mangan na godang asa jogi karejona~Eat a lot to work hard
mangan na godang asa jogi karejona~Eat a lot to work hard
mangan rujak di dongani ni parmossak~eating rujak accompanied by warriors
mangan rujak di dongani ni sigomgom~eating rujak in the company of the rulers
mangan sibuk unto dohot marata kol~eat camel meat with cabbage
mangangguk batinhu tudos di tullang suga~I cried inside as if I had been pricked by a thorn
mangangguk di pudi mengkel di jolo~crying in the back laughing in the front
manganna unang mengendos ondeng karejo angkang~eat, don't have sex, just work, brother
mangaranap sian dosa na hu bahen~reflect on the sins I have committed
mangarihon mate satongkin aropan naumbalga angkang~I have the biggest hope, brother
mangarihonmu adong ma basabasa tarlengket bagihu~having you is the most beautiful gift to me
mangarti ndada alai ho paburbanghon mangarti~don't you understand... but you act like you understand
mangetong aha na boi hu olohon~calculating what I can do
mangetong mundur ulaon imbaru bagas hangoluan~counting down to a new chapter in life
mangetong omo sian rumus na huingot~calculated the results from the formula I remembered
manggora i jolo aek timbung timbo~screaming in front of a high waterfall
manggora pir ate au parlakku sa~shouted loudly, I wasn't the perpetrator
manggulut meaman pedan ndada bolas dipadalan~snatching a friend's toy is not allowed.
manghaholongi tolu jolma huhut ni hasalaanhu~loving three people at once was my mistake
manghaholongimu adong ma basabasa na tarlengket~loving you is the most beautiful gift
manghajongjonghon hinamago jolma sintong godang manjadi~stated that the misfortunes of the righteous often occur
mangharuarhon kareta angin do sian tambonmu~get your bike out of your ass
manghasiholi ama na nunga lao salelengna~I miss my father who has gone forever
manghasiholi sala sada tinompa mi tuhan~miss one of your creations God
manghophop demi las ni roha ibana~sacrifice for her happiness
mangido tangiang panumpak huhut mambakbak sihol~asking for blessings while letting go of longing
mangoloi uhum salpu bolus sangga mangusung~obey traffic rules when driving
mangoluma dohot paho dohot abahan ila~live with morals and a culture of shame
mangomo, sulean, mandapot, dapotan dohot dohar~lucky and lucky
manillik bohihu tudos manillik patung rangsa~observing my face was like observing an exhibition statue
maniop alang alus gabe sahalak parangan~take responsibility, be a soldier
maniroi hamarmansamon abahan sian huta batak~explain the cultural diversity of the Batak region
maniroi tu hita parbue sian habalangon~explains to us the fruits of faithfulness
manirup aoangaoang sogar di ginjang buhit~breathe fresh air on the hill
manirup aoangaoang sogar di ruar bilut~breathe fresh air outdoors
manisia bolas mulak markongsi dohot tuhan~Humans can return to communion with God.
maniuk tu sandok tu bohi au~stroking it all over my face
manjarga hita asa balang tu ibana~wants us to be loyal to him
manogihon hu tu dalan na sintong~guide me to the right path
manomunomu raja na tigor dohot uarar~welcoming a just and glorious king
manondit suda mangan molo ndada marisap~sour after eating if you don't smoke
mansam bagudung ma tihas ho ni~You're like a rat
mansam dia ra karejo ari udan~How do you want to work on a rainy day?
mansam labilabi hona hapur angkang ho~like a worm in your brother's chalk
mansam marlinggom di toru kambona bulu~like taking shelter under a bamboo stick
mansohoti ho adong ma turgashu hasian~marrying you is my duty darling
manuk martahuak manogot ari masuk jabu~The rooster crows in the morning when he enters the house
manuk na marpira ho na martahuak~The chicken lays the eggs, you do the crowing
manukna balga balga alani posoposona balga~The cock is big because the baby is big
manumpa elemen pir di ruang andora~forms hard elements in the chest cavity
manumpa gumulon bilolangon di roha niba~forming a lump of nervousness in my mind
manungkun rampak au manuhor rampak jolma~I asked someone to buy it
manusia mangarihon tingki dohot ombasna sadasa~humans have their own time and place
manuturi hasintongon bangso na ho holong~defend the truth of the nation you love
maol jolma batak na sada on~This bastard sucks
mara sahali nari godang na porus~very dangerous. many are still displaced
marabur aek mata marbinege ende on~tears in my eyes hearing this song
marabur aek simalolonghi marbinege ende on~I got teary eyed hearing this song
maradi ma ho saut anggi hu~stop being my little sister
maraek maraek aek mata di andorahu~soaked with tears on my chest
maraek maraek daging on maraek luhut~wet wet this body is all wet
marbinereng na ris tu anak anakna~sufficient attention to their children
mardabuan aek simalolonghi mambege ende on~My tears fell when I heard this song
mardalan motor sedan marsibolusan dohot lereng~walking past passing sedans and bicycles
mardalanma bagas tiur jahoba adongma tiur~Walk in the light, God is the light
mardalanma rap dirihu dohot sonang rap~walk with me and be happy together
mardohar ho dohar hamlet mora au~You're lucky to have a boyfriend like me
mardongan dohot na matua matua lengen~making friends with old people is fun
marekrek batin hita mamereng do i~It hurts our hearts to see that
marende jo hadungon ter undungundung balga~sing first, the asphalt end of the big hut
marende mi bagas tudos ngolu giot~Your singing in like a happy life
maret mabugang april hita mora rea~March is hurt, April we are rich
marga aha na meam sulim sa~What clan plays the flute?
margahu i nomor opat pulu tolu~My surname is number forty-three
marguru pamasarakaton panjaha parbagian situtung pamalosan~correctional exercise readers division of revenge arsonists
margusting suansuanan na mate manang daringon~prune dead or diseased plants.
marhalado tuhan dohot olle na isi~Serve God with your existing talents
marhapateon ondeng ndada ris sagi au~just being committed is not enough for me
marhaporseaon dohot simbur di bagas tuhan~believe and grow in God
marhaposan tu tuhan dohot sagok tondi~believe in God with all your soul
marhatai ho ndada une dohot karejom~Your talk doesn't match your work
marhatohohon na somal manghasomalhon na sintong~justifying the ordinary, getting used to the true
marhilala matua hian di jou angkang~I feel really old when I'm called brother
marhua hasian na uli na lagu~What is your beautiful, kind hearted darling doing?
marhua i si boru pasaribu hami~What are we doing there, our Boru Pasaribu?
marhua i si inang on lapatani~What is this mamak doing translating?
maribak sipatu siparbagaon au borngin on~tear off my trusty shoes tonight
marihut on hupasahat tutur sara bulus~Below I present a simple procedure
marjanji hot ripe nunga dihangoluhon i~The marriage ceremony was carried out at
marjuang la sapatutna ho tudos parangan~He fought like you were a soldier
marjuang nandigan dieleshon paima i simpang~fight if underestimated wait at the intersection
markarejo lobi benget dohot sagok roha~work more diligently and wholeheartedly
marlaoan tu nagara na tarbali pirus~traveling to a country affected by the virus
marlapatan ho bangke sa hata ibana~That means you are the corpse, he said
marmeam aek maraek marmeam api mosok~playing with wet water, playing with scorching fire
marmeam meam jo manopot ulu bangso~play around first, meet the tribal chief
marminggu nari dipadalan di jabu ganup~services are still held in their respective homes
marminggu on didohoti dohot pesta badia~This service is followed by Holy Communion
marminggu on didongani dohot pesta badia~This service is accompanied by Holy Communion
marningot hagogoton na diahap masarakat hian~remembering the hardships experienced by the people of the past
marningot janji ma ho di au~Remember the promise you made to me
maroma ribu santabi na ndang tarsahathon~thousands of unspoken apologies
marpahu bebe ho modom angkang hu~You're sleeping too soundly, my brother
marpahu godang hua pe ndada jeges~too much sauce is not good
marpahu landit rohana dungkon au dabu~his heart was too slippery that's why I fell
marpahu repot dohot ardoan jolma asingÃƒÂ°Ã…Â¸Ã‹Å“Ã…â€™~too busy and other human affairs
marpahu tonggi babami alai ungap rohami~Your mouth is too sweet even though your heart is rotten
marpambahenan denggan ma binsan ngolu mi~do good in your life
marpambahenan denggan tu pedan ni tohap~doing good to friends is a reward
marpanghorhon musem di paderem rara bohihu~It also has an effect on reducing the redness of my face
marpungu rap pedan ni pala boho~hanging out with friends is really fun
marsak loni au ndang dope gajian~For the most part I haven't been paid yet
marsaor rampak jolma jaua ondeng ho~Just hang out with Javanese people
marsi mamungka bagas managam haroroan tuhan~building each other up in waiting for God's coming
marsi manatap pinjil be bohi imbaru~staring at each other strangely with every new face
marsi mangamini toruk roha marpambahenan denggan~forgive each other, be humble, do good
marsi mangaramoti di bagas jabu balatuk~take care of each other in the household
marsi marbagi asa tortorhon mi hamsar~share with each other so that your pulling runs smoothly
marsiadu luluan hasalaan sian di habonaran~racing to find error, rather than truth
marsibagi hita molo toho isi adong~share with us if it really exists
marsiijur tu ginjang hona tu rupana~spit up into his face
marsiijur tu ginjang hona tu salaksakna~spit upwards onto his forehead
marsitiop porhot di hasintongon hata tuhan~hold fast to the truth of God's word
marsogot arina hami ida ho naung~the next day we will see you
marsogot au mebat tu di san~I'll visit there tomorrow
marsogot boi sungguli au manogot asi~Tomorrow you can wake me up early darling
marsogot do adong piga soal tulang~How many questions will there be tomorrow, Uncle?
marsogot dungoi au pungkul onom olo~Wake me up at six tomorrow, okay?
marsogot hita buat buku sa rampak~tomorrow we will make the same book
marsogot hita ra tu muara muse~tomorrow we want to go to the estuary again
marsogot hu paima i tangga da~I'll wait on the stairs tomorrow
marsogot ondeng tu lapo pukul pitu~Just go to the cafe tomorrow at seven
marsogot pajumpang guru guru gaji pitung~tomorrow we will meet the blind salary teacher
marsogot turun jagal baru da hamuna~New meat will come down tomorrow, you guys
marsogotma hita himpu inum tes pira~Tomorrow we will gather... drink egg tea
marsomba simangot ompung boru sijolojolo tubu~worship the spirits of ancestors
martapian an bou sahali bodat ho~Taking a shower there really smells like your armpits
martapian hinan on do pe mangan~take a shower first then eat
martapian jo an asa lojana mago~Take a shower first so the tiredness goes away
martapian jo an asi asa angur~Take a shower first, darling, so you smell good
martapian ma boru sagala sai i~always take a bath and shower
martapian mangan inum tiak sonduk pinggan~shower eat drink pee spoon plate
martata i ruarna mangangguk i bagasna~laughing on the outside, crying on the inside
martata suping di manutup parungkilan niroha~Smile to cover the sadness in your heart
martata supingma nang ho ate pandohoti~smile even if you are not an actor
martongkar bolas asal unang manggashon ebati~You can fight as long as you don't break the relationship
marudut tu ponggol na lobi tuhu~progress to a more serious stage
marulaon hot ripe di parbornginan angkang~wedding party at my sister's hotel
marupahon jambar punguan sian dua hata~is a combination of two words
marusaha di omo na boho asi~strive for satisfactory results dear
marusaha martata suling agan roha mangangguk~I try to laugh even though my heart is crying
marusaha sondot tingki na di tontuhon~try until the specified time
masalam ingkon do au na mamorsan~I have to shoulder your problem
masalana au dijalo di saut guna~The problem is I was asked to be a function
masi mangelek hamuna unang ndang marsipaidaan~persuade each other, don't fight
masihol au mulak tu medan horas~I miss going back to the city of Medan Horas
mata naung ra tu pulo hapas~My eyes are about to go to Kapok Island
matana talak mamak apala angka hitir~his eyes were wide open, as if frightened.
mataniari tung pala mandoit ari on~The sun is really hot today
mate na marsuru mate na disuru~die who orders to die who is ordered
matema ho di bondar ni bodat~you die in the ditch, monkey
mauliate godang inong si boru purba~Thank you very much Mrs Boru Purba
mauliate tamu undangan na nunga ro~Thank you to the invited guests who have come
meam gitar tudos di kode tuak~playing guitar like in a palm wine shop
medan sambola dia na hona suhul~Which area was affected by the earthquake?
menak asi nasida tupa muse repot~Don't worry, darling, they might be busy
menak hita pa naung di pardagingon~Don't worry, we're already physical
menak menak olo ina di an~calm down, mom there
mene au naeng ro manopoti ho~OK, I'll come to meet you
mene au ndang naeng mangido muse~OK, I won't ask again
mene bagihon tu au pangidoan ido~Okay. give me that offer.
mengamini lobi denggan sian di mambias~defending is better via hating
mengkel di jolo mangangguk di pudi~laughing in the front crying in the back
mengkel ma binsan mengkel di pissang~laugh while laughing is prohibited
mida mangae domdom alogo tano aek~see feel the roar of the homeland wind
mirdong au bojak bagas dasardasar musem~I'm confused. frogs in shells too.
mirdong boasa maol hian lului hepeng~I'm confused about why it's so hard to earn money
mirdong hansit ulu bene loja heu~dizzy dizzy tired tired tired
mirdong peak torus naung borngin musem~dizzy, lying down all night long
mirdong uluhu alani bahenbahenan sada jolma~I have a headache because of one person's actions
mirdong uluhu mangguruhon mata kuliah on~I have a headache studying this subject
modom hita jo nunga borngin ari~We slept at night before
modom jo urupi unang di lola~Go to sleep first, please don't disturb me
modom ma anakhu ari nunga borngin~Go to sleep, my child, it's already late
modom ma hamuna naung tonga borngin~Go to sleep, it's midnight
modom ma ho imam nunga borngin~Go to sleep, priest, it's late
modom ma iboto nunga borngin on~Go to sleep, brother, tonight
modom nok alani marsogot karejo muse~sleep well because tomorrow we have work again
modom nunga borngin annon nipi maraek~I'm going to sleep tonight and I'm going to have a wet dream
modom nunga borngin, godang hian hatana~It's late to sleep, there's a lot of talking
modom tokkin arop muat ma katua~sleep for a while, please understand, chief
modom unang godang pikkiran nanaeng pangoli~Sleep, don't think too much about the bride and groom
modomma angka donganhu, on nunga borngin~Go to sleep my friends, it's already late
modomma ho hasian alai ho marsahit~Go to sleep, darling, but are you sick?
modomma ho hasian asa hatop malum~Go to sleep, darling, so you can get well soon
modomma simalolong dang loja begadang torus~sleep your eyes, don't get tired of staying up all night
mohop hian anggiat oromna ndada sundat~it's really hot, hopefully the fast won't be broken
mohopna mataniari das mangarujak tubagas roha~The heat of the sun pierced my heart
molo adong muse na tamba anggota~if there is anything more personal
molo adong nang sala i domino~if something goes wrong, domino
molo boi langsung tu lambung na~if you can get close
molo boi unang godang galak batak~If possible, don't be too aggressive
molo bonos di gonong saut sada~if it is saturated, round it becomes one
molo dang jadi ro tu pesta~otherwise come to the party
molo dang muat do hu dok~If it doesn't fit, I'll tell you
molo dang podo asa hu antar~If not, I'll still deliver it
molo dang songoni sang pambahenan na~if it's not like that, that's what he'd do
molo dang, hu tumbuk ma ho~If not, I'll punch you
molo dao masihol molo jonok marbadai~if you're far away you miss them, if you're close you fight
molo dohot marga ho joujou aha~What do you call your surname?
molo giot bistok ingkon barani mangunjun~If you want to be smart, you have to dare to try
molo hita naung momos mangarihon pangkirimon~if we really have hope
molo hita puna hagarangon di mangadusa~if we have the courage to pursue it
molo ho holan ro di manggosa~if you only come to hurt
molo ho mangarur ateate pia roha~if you harbor feelings of envy
molo ho na alus tarlobi hian~if you answer first
molo ho tarompas asa ngot ma~if you fall then get up
molo hu dampol bohihu mamintor marlangan~if I massage my face immediately turns pale
molo hu tatap marsillak bohi mi~If I look at your sparkling face
molo ingot au unang lupa ontangan~If you remember me, don't forget the invitation
molo isi dinamarsirang boasa ingkon dipajumpanghon~If there is separation, why must we meet?
molo isi dinamarsirang di aha dipajumpanghon~If there is separation, why meet?
molo jonok gabe lomo lomo rohana~If you're close, you'll be happy
molo jonok hita rampak meam ma~If we're close, we'll play together
molo jonok mamintor ro do au~If it's close, I'll come straight away
molo jonok marbada, anggo dao masihol~If you're close you'll fight, if you're far you'll miss you
molo jonok marbadai, anggo dao sihol~If you're close you fight, if you're far you miss you
molo jonok nunga hu ponggolhon rungkungna~if it was close I would have broken its neck
molo jonok nunga hu sulik ho~If you're close, I'll kidnap you
molo jonok pintor maringkat do au~If it's close, I'll run straight away
molo loja dirim, maradi sajo jo~If you're tired, just rest first
molo mangahap longo boan ma manortor~If you feel lonely, bring it dancing
molo mate ho asa tobat ho~If you die you will have your pool
molo ndada haboratan betak boi urupi~If you don't mind maybe I can help
molo ndada maralangan hami bolas andar~If we are not unable to attend, we can attend
molo nga putus putus ma biang~If it's broken up, break up with the dog
molo nga siap asa marhata sinamot~If you're ready, let's talk dowry
molo ondeng holangna ndada tarsirang tais~if only they weren't so far apart
molo pangalusina ndada mullop sungkunsungkun imbaru~if the answer is no, a new question arises
molo songon on aha ma lapatanna~If it's like this, what does it mean?
molo tingki boi hu paulak muse~If I could turn back time
molo toho do jamu halak batak~If it's true, it's herbal medicine for Batak people
molo ungkil tangis hu na bangkin~if my tears are sad
monang dohot talu ni bongka somal~winning and losing is normal
monsongonsong manaruhon hu tu ruang paniroi~Anxiety led me to the monitoring room
mora anak namarbaju di jabu torus~like a virgin at home all the time
mora dia au mangalimbe tu ho~how can I tell you
mora ndang dope tontu tois dipajolo~Being rich doesn't necessarily mean being arrogant comes first
motor ondeng ahu dapot haru rohami~I can get the car, let alone your heart
muat di son godang jolma batak~Understandably there are a lot of Batak people here
muat ma au mantan parkarejo di~Please note that I am a former employee at
muat ma goarna musem imbaru marsiajar~Understandably the name is also just learning
muat manang daong baju i tulang~understand it or not uncle's clothes
muat nari ponggol marsiajar bahasa batak~Understandably still at the stage of learning the Batak language
muba ma unang ra di tidos~Change, don't be oppressed
muba nang ndada ou naung lok~Even if it doesn't change, it's up to you
mudar batak durus gong i andora~Batak blood flowed down his chest
mudar batak nari durus di pamatanghon~Batak blood still flows in my body
mula hami marumur sampulu onom taon~since we were sixteen
mula sadihari ho laok tu batak~Since when did you join Batak?
mulai saonari putus ma hita da~From now on, let's break up
mulak anak hu ari nunga borngin~My son came home late at night
mulak au pasahathon aninganing bagas tangiang~Again I submit my request in prayer
mulak dinas di harangan mangalului hau~returned to work in the forest looking for wood
mulak ma hami purba dolok nari~let's go home, we're old enough, still
mulak tu huta asa mangan pere~go back to the village, so that you can eat for free
mulak tu mula mulak tu lumban~back to the beginning, back to the village
mulak tu on muse di himpu~come back here again for gatherings
mulakma damang asa amam las roha~Go home, son, so that your father will be happy
mulakma mandapothon au tamana sahalak pedan~come back to me like a friend
mulakma tuau au pala manghasiholi ho~come back to me I really miss you
mulamula au ndada hea marroha mardongan~First of all, I never intended to be friends
mullop sian binanga dohot maraek maraek~emerged from the river soaking wet
muningan sa dohot rumang bohi soksok~he asked with an annoyed face
muruk tongtong ho usehon di ahu~you always pour out your anger on me
muse aha on husor ende batak~what else is playing Batak songs?
muse antong bajuna ndang dope mahiang~Besides, the clothes haven't dried yet
muse jumpangan rampak mas ulan bunga~I'm meeting with Mr Budi Mawar
muse mangehet ehet pedan au goarna~again mocking my friend's name
muse mangontang nuaeng i bona birong~again inviting now on the black stump
muse modom ibana pungkul nasa on~He's sleeping at this hour
muse naporsuk tais sian haholongan hu~I'm languishing away from my lover
musem gok dohot tona tona marbangko~also full of messages of nature
mutu au di mandohoti pardalanan ngolum~I am willing to follow your life journey
mutu ho tadinghon au demi ibana~are you willing to leave me for him
na asi halina au rap ho~I really love you
na au habiari gabusan antong ni~What I'm afraid of is also a lie
na au pasangap ni kompak tutur~I respect my close relatives
na bagak bere inang baju on~this aunt's beautiful niece
na boasa do jolma bada torus~which is why people keep fighting
na boi andar ise hira hira~Who do you think can attend?
na boto guna dohot turgasna ganup~who know their respective functions and duties
na di putik mamintor sian pardolokan~which is picked directly from the mountains
na di uluhon angkup sahalak dolidoli~led by a young man
na dia dang dope di alus~which has not been answered
na ginagat pidong sa asal bonana~The origin of the bird's dung
na gok ma torsa ho ido~That's a lot of your story
na hadohoan roha hita tongtong mardame~The most important thing is that our hearts are always at peace
na hami pasangap dohot jahoba parbadiai~whom we respect and Allah glorifies
na ho bagihon di manogot ari~that you gave me in the morning
na ho sulingkit ni naung godang~There's a lot you've researched
na holang holanma angkula ate ae~The distance is only the body, not the feeling
na hu sura sa jolma medan~I thought he was from Medan
na imbaru gotap holong sa ho~the one who just broke up with you
na jengeng sa katua tarhiap au~What's scary is that the chairman surprised me
na jongir ma ho rampak hu~You're the cruel one to me
na lungun ma au mambegesa ni~What's sad is that I heard that
na manghorhonhon diri on tongtong mangangguk~which causes me to always cry
na manogihon sangga au matua annon~that will guide me when I'm old
na maradong di sabolahu tarbereng busisa~who was beside me looked anxious
na marilmu ndang dope tontu marangkal~those who are knowledgeable are not necessarily intelligent
na maruap ugamo ho pasaut gaitan~You make jokes about religion
na masuk i roha imbaru diririt~which enters the heart. just proposed
na matena annon ho di an~you'll die there
na matena au mambege hatahata on~I died hearing these words
na mingor la baba angkang ni~What's noisy is the older brother's mouth
na naeng gabe urat bangso indonesia~which will become the roots of the Indonesian nation
na naung salpu anggo boi dilupahon~what is past can be forgotten
na ndada digora di jolo jolma~which is not mentioned in front of people
na nibagas hurung manang diruar hurung~what is in brackets or outside of brackets
na nunga ho andar pa dingoluhu~that you have come into my life
na olo margareja dohot mandalanhon ugamona~who obediently worship and practice their religion
na on ditangani karejo sadasa dipaberengbereng~this one is taken care of, the work is left to itself
na oto tarnata anak boru on~The stupid one turned out to be this girl
na paasinghon sara hita marsomba sa~which differentiates the way we worship him
na padohot tohonanna na timbil timbo~which is among the highest ranks
na paduahon adong tortor adat batak~The second is the traditional Batak dance
na pala anto ginjang siahapon bangsona~who really cares about the fate of his people.
na palimahon sipanganon panganon na hipas~fifth, consume healthy food
na paopathon adong pahean adat batak~the fourth is traditional Batak clothing
na patoluhon adong panganon tandi batak~the third is typical Batak food
na ra pelean taon on holan~Only those who want to sacrifice this year
na ringkot ganana pidong ni pinjil~the important thing is that the shape of the bird is different
na ringkot ndada mamarengkeli jolma asing~The important thing is not to laugh at other people
na ringkot pusuk gadong isi pa~What's important is that the sweet potato shoots are there, right...
na saep jolma saep tambonna mamak~who is patient, patient people have wide buttocks
na sangajo ho tahan mida anakmi~that you deliberately hold back from seeing your child
na sangajo ndada ho dophon anakmi~who you deliberately don't consider your child
naboa on boasa muruk muruk anggia~What's going on? Why are you angry?
naeng au jujung goar mi ama~I will uphold your name, father
naeng au rupana pa luhut on~I will make all of this happen
naeng dalan tudiape na hami ra~will go wherever we want
naeng hu gorga goarmu i rohahi~I will paint your name in my heart
naeng hu ingot pangalaho mi babi~I will remember your behavior pig
naeng hudia amudi i juju angkanghu~Where did my brother direct the steering wheel?
naeng huputik bulan dohot hugurat goarmu~I'll pick the moon and write your name
naeng isi habahaba mangarujak tondi on~there will be a storm piercing this soul
naeng lehononhu alusan na sintong tuho~I will give you the correct answer
naeng mangalehon anak sa na nasasada~will give up his only child
naeng mulak di tingkina tudos jo~will return to the same time as before
naeng pamasahon oroan dohot hot ripe~will hold engagements and weddings
nanaeng pangondian hita tois loni ho~Our prospective lawyer is arrogant, you
nandigan adong dope na olo manumbang~if anyone still wants to donate
nandigan parjuanganmu dieleshon paima i simpang~If your struggle is underestimated, wait at the crossroads
nang ate anak lumamglumamg naso marina~although not an orphan
nang sihol on holan ardo tingki~If you miss it, it's only a matter of time
nanget nanget hatana au ndada mangarti~I don't understand what he's talking about slowly
nanget nanget na ringkot tarpapungu pa~Slowly, slowly, the important thing is to collect it, right?
nangkat parmabuk inganan parsatongkinan pangallang parlosok~funeral drunk bullet lazy eater
nangkin alai ho mangalo mangehet au~earlier but you resisted mocking me
nangkin mangantar ama au tu bandara~I was taking my father to the airport
nangkok holan kombur asam pe odoran~going up is just a boast of value and it's your turn
nantuari au bolus isi ida holi~Yesterday I passed by and saw bones
nantuari ra diotoi au rampak panipu~Yesterday I was about to be cheated by a fraudster
nari adong do siholmu di ahu~do you still miss me?
nari biar rampak huting dohot boraspati~Still afraid of cats and lizards?
nari boi pangidoan na tudos ni~can you still order something like that?
nari di son marsitiop di padan~still here holding on to the promise
nari di surabaia manang naung mussat~Are you still in Surabaya or have you moved?
nari godang laos sinamago nagari on~There are still many problems in this country
nari ingot ho tarnata rampak hu~I still remember that you were the same as me
nari isi ateate mi rap au~you still have feelings for me
nari isi olo manisia marateate sibolis~There are still devil-hearted humans
nari ndang dope isi na diparsinta~still nothing to look forward to
nari patut mangangku parsikkola na timbo~still eligible to be admitted as a student
nari sihol nahinan pupus ni tondihu~I still miss my late lover
nari tarhilala isi dua ribu sa~it's still not bad there are two thousand
nari tondong rampak dongan burjum ido~still family and your good friend
nasai ma jo na boi hupasahat~That's all I can say for now
nasida isi na tading i horisan~some of them live on the coast
nasida marmeam haithait dohot las roha~they play poles happily
nasida salpu mamiltik parbue na boi~they then picked whatever fruit they could
nasida tarlambat sikkola rodina guru maminsang~they are late for school so the teacher punishes them
naung alai au ndada boto tompa~I have, but I don't know the forging
naung boi manjua rohana dohot sidalian~can deny his feelings with reason
naung borngin dang denggan tu hagompison~late night is not good for health
naung borngin on marsogot arian sajo~tonight, tomorrow afternoon
naung buhai bongkak na ringkot hipas~It's starting to swell, which is important to be healthy
naung das sampulu minut na salpu~arrived ten minutes ago
naung das tu di san panghataion~That's where the conversation has come
naung di huta dia nuaeng ho~where are you now?
naung di medan do ho lapuk~those who are already in the city of Medan, are you rotten?
naung dibahen durus au rampak mi~I've made me melt with you
naung dijangkon angkup gareja timbil benda~had been accepted by the church at the latest
naung dipalao sian huta inganan sorang~had been expelled from the village where he was born
naung dorsun motor on alani tolbak~This car is already dirty because of the landslide
naung dua loni lebaran ho bolushon~You've already missed Eid twice
naung habotoan tihas dohot leheng tohona~His true nature and character have been discovered
naung ho doit panganon i son~Have you tasted the food here?
naung ho ulahon ulaula mi ni~you've done your job
naung hu bursik ido bulung sa~I've sprayed the leaves
naung hu pandok unang ihut martongtang~I told you not to join the fight
naung hu pandok unang marbada muse~I told you, don't fight anymore
naung hudok unang ho pantas apala~I told you not to say that
naung huduru soara tohona pala bagak~The original sound has come out, it's really cool
naung husuba mangalupahon goarmu sian rohahi~I've tried to forget your name from my heart
naung ida las roha naung maderder~I've seen it, I'm glad it's gone
naung jeges na dibahen dohot digotaphon~It's a good thing to do and decide
naung leleng ho ndada uhai angkang~It's been a long time since you contacted me, brother
naung leleng ndada martarombo bahasa batak~I haven't spoken Batak for a long time
naung leleng ndada mebat tu son~Haven't visited here for a long time
naung male mangumma babi luslus on~I'm already hungry to smell this roast pork
naung mandaon maruhom diri di jabu~I'm used to staying at home
naung marhamulian dohot puna tolu anak~is married and has three children
naung marusaha au manogot dohot potang~I've tried morning and evening
naung menak ho di lambung tuhan~you are at peace with God
naung mirdong au mate alani tarhinos~I'm already dizzy. died of exhaustion
naung ndada isi muse lapatanna dasi~there is no longer any meaning in ties
naung ndada tahan dohot tingki on~I can't stand this situation anymore
naung ndang tartaon muse sihol on~I can't stand this longing anymore
naung rittik au ida pande gondangna~I was crazy when I saw the drummer
naung sadia loni pasang jorgong bagudung~How many times have you set mouse traps?
naung sae tading pareakhon tu inganan~It's finished, just go to the place
naung saema au ndada mangarti muse~It's enough that I don't understand anymore
naung sanga antong diolopi dongan ido~My friend already agreed to it
naung sapatutna ho muruk di hu~It's natural for you to be angry with me
naung sataon lobi au ndada markarejo~I haven't worked for more than a year
naung silbak ndada tupa di dungkap~It's already cracked and can't be patched
naung sorang jesus sang pande ramot~Jesus the Savior was born
naung sun au manghobas jabu sa~I'm ready to clean the house
naung sun diunung au hatop ro~I'm ready to propose, come quickly
naung sundat saut dolidoli denggan au~I have failed to be a good man
naung tudos tondong boasa masi unsil~It's like family, why exclude each other?
ndada aha dakdanak sian di jempek~it's okay kid than short
ndada ambul au ro tu pestami~I can't afford to come to your party
ndada ambung mamungka holong dungkon dinamarsirang~it's not easy to build love after separation
ndada ambung mangarihon parbogason holang tais~it's not easy to have a long distance relationship
ndada andar muse dohot padan manismu~no longer clear and your sweet promises
ndada andar muse dohot padan manismu~no longer clear with your sweet promises
ndada andar on naung rambon ibana~this is not clear. he's already run away
ndada andar sa naniomo ari on~It's not clear about today's income
ndada antus aha na di dokhon~don't understand what is being said
ndada bege au muse pangke hapas~Didn't hear that I'm still using cotton
ndada binahen ni sere manang perak~don't do it with gold or silver
ndada binahen ni serep manang perak~do not do good deeds or silver
ndada boi hu balos luhut haburjuonmi~I can't repay all your kindness
ndada boi i sagi manang tarbagi~cannot be shared or divided
ndada boi ihut marpungu ari on~Can't join the gathering today
ndada boi lao manghundang anduhur tokke~can't go luring the boss's turtledoves
ndada boi modom sapata hansit ngingi~couldn't sleep due to toothache
ndada boi tais sian gedekgedek ina~can't be far from the mother's armpit
ndada bolas suriga dohot marutokutok negatip~must not be suspicious and think negatively
ndada bonar i ulaon tu dua~not enthusiastic in the second half
ndada bonton anggo dalanna tongtong rap~It's not difficult, if you always walk together
ndada boto anang dainang ise on~I don't know whose mother this is
ndada dapotmu muse jolma tudos au~You can't get anyone like me anymore
ndada dipangke jolma ni bajuna nibagas~isn't that person wearing clothes inside?
ndada dirimpu ho sahatop ni lahona~I didn't expect you to go that fast
ndada dohar marsibahen lomo ni rohana~can't get freedom
ndada godang di angkup di gareja~not much to add to the church
ndada godang hepeng adong pe saotik~not a lot of money, as for a little
ndada hea au bias mamikkiri ho~I never get tired of thinking about you
ndada hea hita mardomu martaon taon~we haven't seen each other in years
ndada hea hupatuduhon tu ise pe~I never showed it to anyone
ndada hea mangido di gabe himpal~never asked to be whole
ndada holan ho na di jonoki~It's not just you who is being approached
ndada isi angkal mi leleng leleng~you don't have any sense for long
ndada isi ardoanmu manangani ngolu au~you have no business taking care of my life
ndada isi artina mamanghulingi jolma tois~there is no point in greeting arrogant people
ndada isi au ara ndang marsipaidaan~I didn't invite anyone to fight
ndada isi bara bahen au asi~no chocolate for me darling?
ndada isi bara di au asi~no chocolate for me darling?
ndada isi bogasna dohot siahapon denggan~has nothing to do with good luck
ndada isi bonar muse anang ma~there's no enthusiasm anymore, I don't know
ndada isi borngin na marpogo salelengna~no night lasts forever
ndada isi haburjuon panongosan di silua~there is no delivery service for souvenirs
ndada isi hamajuon dohot buku ni~there was no progress with the book
ndada isi hamlet unang dibuat mirdong~Don't have a girlfriend, don't worry
ndada isi hata na manggombarhon hadangolonhu~there are no words to describe my sadness
ndada isi hepeng di garar sinamot~there is no money to pay the dowry
ndada isi hepeng ndada isi hatigoran~no money no justice
ndada isi holong niroham di hu~there is no love in your heart for me
ndada isi imbarna ndada aha aha~there's no difference it doesn't matter
ndada isi mara na hami bolusi~we have not experienced any disasters
ndada isi muse ardoanna rampak ama~I don't have anything to do with my father anymore
ndada isi muse hepeng au nasai~I don't have that much money anymore
ndada isi muse manisia marateate denggan~there are no more good-hearted humans
ndada isi na bagak lobian ho~no one is beautiful except you
ndada isi na hutanda sian nasida~I don't know any of them
ndada isi na manggantihon ho nirohahu~no one can replace you in my heart
ndada isi na naeng dohar mangetong~no one will be able to count
ndada isi na porlu di paandar~there is nothing that needs to be explained
ndada isi ngolu na ndada martihas~there is no life without problems
ndada isi pangalaho burjuna ibana ido~he has no good intentions
ndada isi panganon korma pe saut~there is no food, even dates
ndada isi pedan di dihara marhatai~no friends to talk to
ndada isi saotikpe ho dophon au~you don't think of me in the slightest
ndada isi suhisuhi aula na rumar~no corner of the hall was empty
ndada isi tahi hian ngolu sa~He doesn't really have any initiative in life
ndada isi tingki di mamikkirhon mi~no time to think about you
ndada isi tinompa tuhan na roa~There is no bad creation of God
ndada isi utokmi mambahen tudos ni~none of your brain made it like that
ndada isi utokutok ho sesa ni~no brainer you delete it
ndada las roha rohahi manorui ibana~I'm not happy about going to him
ndada luhut ingkon dipataridahon tu jolma~not everything has to be shown to people
ndada luhut jolma batak marugamo kristen~Not all Batak people are Christians.
ndada luhut na birong ni manghodarhon~not everything black is unclean
ndada luhut na diparetonghon dohar dietong~not everything that counts can be counted
ndada luhut na saksak ni jeges~not everything that glitters is beautiful
ndada luhut tudos na ho parbaga~not everything is as you expect
ndada lupa mamahe tahuluk i ulu~Don't forget to wear a skullcap on your head
ndada ma justeru au jalo asi~No, I'll actually thank you
ndada mamparateatehon hapantunon dohot mambal paho~not paying attention to decency and deviating from morals
ndada manjadi alai mantat adongma sihol~it doesn't happen but the result is longing
ndada masala laos salahu au jalo~no problem, it's my fault I accept it
ndada masala molo ho ndada manghaholongihu~it doesn't matter if you don't love me
ndada masuk angkal na di tongos~it doesn't make sense what was sent
ndada masuk angkal na ho tongos~it doesn't make sense what you sent
ndada naeng mahiang laut di tahutahu~the sea in Timba will not dry up
ndada naeng pisang marboras dua loni~bananas won't bear fruit twice
ndada pantun olo pandok ra tete~It's not polite to say you want to defecate
ndada pigapiga leleng tompu hailna tarsintak~Not long after, the hook suddenly jerked,
ndada ra dipature di hadengganonsa sadasa~does not want to be regulated for his own good
ndada ra margusting di sangga on~don't want to prune at this time
ndada ra suman na ginagat hambing~Don't want to! looks like goat dung!
ndada ra tutu alealena i buat~He doesn't really want his best friend to be taken away
ndada rampak sahali au di tingkir~I didn't see it at all
ndada sa tutu na marangkang ni~Isn't it true that the brother is right?
ndada sadalan dohot dohot uhum patik~not in line with the law
ndada salelengna galapang hangoluon di ginjang~not always the wheel of life at the top
ndada sasudena ingkon puna pangalusina nuaeng~not everyone has to have the answer now
ndada saut do lao manopot donganmu~So don't you go see your friend?
ndada sogir holi gari mauli bulung~Bones are not dangerous, they are happy
ndada tais molo hita manaeki kareta~not far if we take the train
ndada tais parbue dabu sian bonana~not far the fruit falls from the tree
ndada tais tubis sian kambona sa~not far from the bamboo shoots from the stem
ndada tarpaboa muse ae hansit on~this pain is unspeakable
ndada tarpaboa muse ae sihol on~I can't express this feeling of longing anymore
ndada tarpasidinghon angkup holang dohot tingki~inseparable by distance and time
ndada tartaon muse ra mangangguk daina~I couldn't hold it in anymore, I felt like crying
ndada tigor ho tu iboto mi~You're unfair to your brother
ndada tudos ibana na ho sonom~not like the one you desire
ndada tudos somalna panggadisan ari on~not like usual sales today
ndada tung manggadis diri pala muraan~don't really sell yourself very cheaply
ndada tupa anggo dang adong hepeng~impossible if there is no money
ndada tupa ma isi na sundat~it's impossible for anyone to fail
ndada unang sungkunhon sadihari ibana mulak~No, don't ask when he's coming home
ndang boi gabe sioloan molo songoni~can't be a role model then
ndang boi hita sundur masala sinamotna~We can't talk about the dowry issue
ndang boi hu patorang sian rohahi~I can't explain it from my heart
ndang dope boi maradi satongkin amangna~Dad can't go on leave yet
ndang dope dibereng ibana berem on~He hasn't seen your nephew yet
ndang dope hea au dabu holong~I've never fallen in love
ndang dope hea dibapbap pangke tarugi~Have you ever been beaten with a stick?
ndang dope hea dibasbas anak on~This child has never been hit before
ndang dope isi na mangisi rohahi~nothing has filled my heart yet
ndang dope isi pansidungi das nuaeng~there is no solution until now
ndang dope isi tahina di sohot~There are no plans to get married yet
ndang dope ondeng hu pukul ulum~I haven't hit you in the head yet
ndang dope sae nonangan hita nangkin~Our chat hasn't finished yet
ndang dope taruli boruboru na tongon~Haven't found a suitable woman yet
ndang dope tutup poti na matena~the coffin hasn't closed yet
ndang hea huagam ho nunga muba~I never thought you had changed
ndang isi harbue antirha pe saut~There's no cassava rice either
ndang isi na mamekhon parenta paniroi~no one heeded the supervisor's orders
ndang isi pangalaho unang tu on~if you have no morals, don't come here
ndang mambahen hita lala bagas parungkilan~does not make us drown in sadness
ndang marsangkap di manggosa rohami dongan~I didn't mean to hurt your feelings, friend.
ndang naeng hu porsea muse hatahatam~I won't believe what you say anymore
ndang naeng onjam di paduahon loni~won't fall a second time
ndang niula angkup ni mangumpat janggut~there is no work other than pulling out the beard
ndang pa hea isi dame mangardang~there will never be peaceful humming
ndang patut sa molo hu pikkiri~It's not appropriate if I think about it
ndang porlu lomos rongkapmi tangkas ro~No need to worry, your soul mate will definitely come
ndang tarae marsogot naung ari senen~Can't believe it's already Monday tomorrow
ndang tarpasidinghon angkup holang dohot tingki~inseparable by distance and time
ndang tudos hinan nuaeng buhai holang~not like before! now it's starting to go away
ndangna ni porlu di parkaro marsiajar~not that it is necessary for the learning process
nga boa di bariba kalimantan on~It is common across the island of Kalimantan
nga gampang be antong molo songoni~It would be easy if that were the case
nga loja ho inang nauli lagu~I'm tired, you kind mother
nga nunga hita tuhor roti sajo~OK, let's just buy bread
nga tung loja hian daging on~This body is very tired
ngabe laos ndada boto saut salahon~never mind, I don't know, so blame me
ngabe modom hamuna nunga borngin on~you've got enough sleep tonight
ngabe nunga borngin hatop modom hamuna~Never mind, it's already night, go to sleep quickly
ngabe tabe sorta ma au olo~I'll just say hello politely
ngabe unang marpahu tuhu hian ma~That's enough. Don't be too serious this time
ngali ngali tabo mangan hassang robus~cold cold delicious to eat boiled peanuts
ngalian mohop sa sirsir ra mulak~He had a fever when he was about to go home
ngalina alogo borngin on pangali rohahi~the cold wind tonight chills my heart
ngolu dohot hadirion mate dohot doho~live with principles, die with honor
ngolu hu gok abatabat godang hagogoton~My life is full of obstacles and many difficulties
ngolu manisia di tudos ngolu babi~human life compared to pig life
ngolu ni didalani dihamauliatehon diatimi ondeng~Life is lived, be grateful, just enjoy it
ngolu pa marlinang mamungka na imbaru~life is radiant, starting new
ngoluhu tarhira lambang tarsongon ndang martuhan~My life seems empty and godless
ngoluon ingkon girgir gabe unang mangande~life must be enthusiastic. so, don't give up
ngorngor lam haberengan luhut tulen sa~Slowly it becomes more and more apparent that everything is genuine
ngot ma sangga diri mi sundat~Get up when you fail
ni anak muse ihut paraloan tokke~That's the kid taking part in the boss's competition
ni bahasa holangholang anak dohot amangna~it's the language between a child and his father
ni dungkon unang hamu jual mahal~so don't sell it expensively
ni jolma batak ndada hea sundat~Batak people never fail
ni jolma ndada sunggul andorang durak~people don't realize they're being humiliated
ni loloan na tama ramot borngin~Dear guests, good evening..
ni marisi risa na timbil sintong~it contains the truest philosophy
ni na baju birong boasa dihomat~Why are those black clothes closed?
ni na gabe apoapo tu hami~that's what drives us
ni ompung doli andorang manjagai hita~Grandpa is watching us
ni pande tingki nuaeng musem mandodo~contemporary experts also suspect
ni pande tingki nuaeng musem manguhal~contemporary experts also discuss
ni pardengke andorang manghail godang dengke~the fishermen are catching lots of fish
ni parhundul mangalithon pahean na jeges~the residents wore beautiful clothes
ni pipi au ho tangko olo~That's my face, you stole it, okay?
ni pusatna ngolu jolma batak on~that's the essence of the lives of these Batak people
ni toktok ho ma mangajari au~It's your duty to teach me
ni torus na anak hamlethu tonggor~that's what my daughter keeps watching
nia tuptup na ampa dohot umuli~give wise and best decisions
nibagas roha hu tongtong isi goarmu~In my heart there is always your name
ninghu ho patulus ondeng ibana lao~In my opinion, you just let him go
ninna duiung sa bahen mangaramoti ho~he said the mermaid was there to look after you
ninna manisia na ndada isi utokna~He said humans have no brains
ninna sali alai ndada hea hosing~he said he borrowed it but never returned it
nipi marpahu timbo singgang hurang toruk~dream too high, prostrate not enough low
nomor piga do tahe uda sian~what number is it sir?
nomor ualu lomo panangko sande jolma~number eight likes to steal people
nonang damang dohot anak na marguna~fruitful father and son conversation
nuaeng au marumur sampulu sia taon~now I am nineteen years old
nuaeng au marumur sampulu tolu taon~now I am thirteen years old
nuaeng au naung di kalas sia~now I'm in ninth grade
nuaeng be ari hita boi margareja~now every day we can worship
nuaeng mussat dohot nangkok tohonan olo~Now move on and get promoted
nuaeng na baling bibirna muse jugul~now the one whose lips are crooked is stupid
nuaeng naung ndang isi pandapotan hepeng~now there is no money income
nuaeng naung simbur toras gari mansogohon~Now I've grown up and it's even annoying
nuaeng siholhu ndang muse mananda tingki~Now I miss you beyond time
nunga be binsar mata ni ari~the sun has risen
nunga be on amang, sotung tumbang~never mind, father, don't fall
nunga borngin ingkon mulak tu jabu~It's late I have to go home
nunga borngin laoshon modom unang gaor~It's late, please sleep, don't be noisy
nunga borngin modom marsogot cuci jabu~I'm going to sleep tonight, I'm going to wash the house
nunga borngin on, suru ibana mulak~it's already tonight, tell him to go home
nunga borngin pardijabu hu nunga mangalului~It's late, my wife is already looking
nunga borngin tingkina modom tarik salimut~It's night time to sleep, pull the blanket
nunga borngin umdenggan modom sajo hamuna~It's late, you should just sleep
nunga lam torop bilangan ni ruas~The number of congregations is getting bigger and bigger
nunga leleng dang pasang poto hamu~It's been a long time since I posted your photo
nunga loja iba terjemahkan bahasa batak~I'm tired of translating Batak language
nunga modom, naung borngin marsogot muse~I'm asleep, it'll be night again tomorrow
nunga monding tujabu ama di surgo~has returned to his father's home in heaven
nunga pas gabe hela halak batak~is suitable to be the son-in-law of a Batak man
nunga piga borngin bulan tula i~how many nights has the full moon been?
nunga putus pe taon pargaulan ta~Our relationship has ended for years
nunga ro di ahu tikki i~had come to me at that time
o unang lele leleng modom da~Don't sleep too long okay?
ojak ma sopola mandabuhon jolma asing~Stand up without knocking others down
oke busbus ho modom, nunga borngin~OK, go to sleep soon, it's late
oke ma annon ma hita udut~Okay. Let's continue later
oke unang lomo marubauba manang maoraor~OK, don't be fickle, aka unstable
okema au naeng mangendehon sabiji ende~OK, I'll sing a song
olo angkang tu on jo boan~Yes, brother, come here first and bring it
olo hasian na uli na lagu~yes beautiful, generous darling
olo ibana denggan ibana marugamo silom~yes he is good he is Muslim
olo jahoba au giot mardomu amonghu~Oh my god, I want to meet my father
olo ma tutu boasa gabe repot~Yes, that's right, why are you so busy?
olo ma unang lupa undang au~Yes, don't forget to invite me
olo naung punguhon hepeng ondeng jo~OK, just collect the money first
olo ngabe annon hita udut muse~OK, never mind, we'll continue later
olo songonon ma boru pangaribuan i~Yes, this is what Boru Pangaribuan looks like
olo songonon ma siahapon jolma roa~Yes, this is the fate of ugly people
olo tuhan daina au giot gora~oh my god I feel like I want to scream
olo tuhan dohoti ma tongtong dainang~Oh God, always accompany me, mother
olo tuhan hami naung manangihon hatam~O Lord, we have heard your word
olo tuhan ho nunga mamarentahon hami~O Lord, you have commanded us
olo, nunga be sidung au ujian~Yes, I've finished the exam
olodo ho mambuha rohami di hu~will you open your heart to me
olohon salomom au naung ndada anto~do whatever you want, I don't care anymore
oloma au hona sapata sian asi~I want to get karma from my darling
oloma, molo songoni au lao jo~OK, then I'll go first
oloma, molo songoni au parmisi jo~OK, then I'll take my leave
olope naung sian mula au bahen~or I have done it from the start
ompung boru au pangido santabi sabalgabalgana~My grandmother apologized profusely
ompung boru hu ngingi sa lobangon~My grandmother had missing teeth
ompung doli nini au sian batak~My great grandfather was from Batak
ompung doli ra gadis piapia ina~Grandfather wants to sell mother's kidney
ompungna roa sahali saridondonon dohot birong~His grandfather was very ugly, dirty and black
on adong ma angkang patoluhon au~this is my third brother
on adong ma pigapiga tiruan hadumaon~these are some examples of prosperity
on adong ma sarahu mangadopi bias~This is my way of dealing with boredom
on anak isi ondeng leak sa~This kid just has his whims
on anak parompuan haholonganmu naung balga~your beloved daughter is all grown up
on au mangan naung sahatop pane~I ate this as fast as lightning
on bahen tuhor siinumon ambang jo~This is to buy a soft drink first
on ende na manurinurihon sahalak ina~This song tells the story of a mother
on ise dodot bonosan sinta olo~who is this... my condolences
on jolma rittik nalilu songon sa~This crazy person is lost like that
on luatna jonok sahali sian son~This area is very close to here
on mangalului bitik karejo na imbaru~This is looking for new work experiences
on muse au punguhon hepeng sa~I'm still collecting the money
on na mangajari punguan ni hatahata~this is what teaches the dictionary
on naung borngin ombasna ho modom~It's already night time for you to sleep
on naung siahapon mangarihon tondina ondeng~It's just fate to have his soul
on nunga borngin annon masuk alogo~It's getting cold tonight
on nunga borngin umdenggan ho modom~It's late, you should sleep
on nunga borngin unang mangkar da~It's already late, don't stay up late okay?
on pangidoanmu naeng au gohi ai~This is your request, I will fulfill it
on par simpang nahudok nabodari ito~This is a complement to the perpetrator of the intersection that I said last night when a man greets a woman's sibling
on ragam na pasudahon hauma hita~this is the kind that eats up our rice fields
ondihon iboto sahaporseaon hami olo jahoba~protect our brothers in faith, O Allah
ondihon ma au dohot tondonghu tuhan~protect me and my family God
ondol jabum naung saut haberengan menak~Great, your house is finished, it looks comfortable
ongkos padengganhon kareta pasudahon godang hepeng~Motorbike repairs cost a lot of money
onom ratus ribu patulus ondeng ma~six hundred thousand, just relax
opat desa naeng manaroso hamuna ngorngor~the four corners will attack you slowly
orang au dang tanda dohot ho~people I don't know you
otona torbang bolis marsinggang di mi~It's too stupid that Satan swore at you
ou annon au sungkunhon tu ibana~Yes, I'll ask him later
ou annon ma anggo isi hepenghi~Yes, I'll see if I have the money
ou au boto nangkin isi boaboa~Yes, I know, there was a notification just now
ou baoa oto na ndada parhaseang~yes, a stupid man who doesn't take advantage
ou goarna ngolu pola godang marsabam~Yes, life requires a lot of patience
ou isi na boi au balbal~Yes? is there anything I can slam?
ou laos alai isi hiap alogo~yes, but there is a fan
ou laos daona hita sian son~Yes, we are far from here
ou marabur aek mata tanggo sa~Yes, I have tears in my eyes looking at it
ou naung tongkin muse au mulak~yeah, I'll be home in a minute
ou rongkap naung isi na pature~Yes, someone has already arranged a soul mate
ou tokkin annon au tu an~Yes, I'll be there in a moment
ou tontu ondeng beha dohot ho~yes of course, how about you
ou tontu ondeng beha dohot ho~yes of course, what about you?
ou tulang tulang unang lomos olo~yes uncle, uncle don't worry okay?
ou unang dibahen samansam anak jungkat~Yes, don't make it like a bad child
pa rias bunga ni holong hu~it's the rose tree of my loves
pa rias gombar ni holong hu~The matchstick tree is a picture of my loves
pabandothu torus rampak baea baea ido~the man continues to be irritated
paboahon tu hita dohot mamparrentahon hita~informs us and makes us equal
padan holong na sungkot jolma matua~the promise of love that was blocked by parents
padan manang ulaning na ingkon hugohi~What promises can I fulfill?
padan mi ni ingkon di tingkosi~Your promise must be kept
padan tuhan ndada naeng hea diose~God's promises will never be broken
padao ma ibana sian simangot jungkat~keep him away from evil spirits
padohot bagas bahasa na tarasup ripur~including endangered languages
padohot inang na nunga manubuhon au~including the mother who gave birth to me
padot jaha leleng leleng tangkas boi~Read it carefully, after a long time you will definitely get it
paet daina pogu tonggi daina gula~Bitter tastes like bile, sweet tastes like sugar
paet sa hangoluan manaluhon paet pogu~the bitterness of life beats the bitterness of gall
paganuphon diri dohot aha na isi~content yourself with what you have
pagodang tangiang mi tu di tuhan~increase your prayers to God
pagodanghon raksa dohot pabidanghon lingkup pardonganon~increase knowledge and expand the circle of friends
pagodanghu mangan na ginagat sa ho~eat most of your shit
pagodanghu musem marpangalaho risi dohot gomos~Most of them also have a rude and strict character
pahompu hu naung mangan ho damang~My grandson has eaten you, son
paima anak mi mamboan nanaeng pardijabu~wait for your son to bring his future wife
paima godang hepenghi imbaru huririt ho~Wait until I have a lot of money before I propose to you
paima manuk na ra di barobo~wait for the chicken you want to catch
paima olo nuaeng musem di tuhorhon~wait, buy it now
paima ondeng panghorhonna manjua angguliman hu~just wait for the consequences of disobeying my words
paima ondeng saut bangke di bondar~just wait to be a corpse in the gutter
paima tongkin au ra banje banje~wait a minute, I'm going to get it sorted
paima umur ris imbaru hita paborhat~Wait until you are old enough before we leave
pajongjonghon sabiji jabu sagi goar tuhan~build a house for the name of God
pajumpang ise do ndang huboto ni~I met someone I don't know
pajumpangma ibana dohot antuasu na hangar~he met a hungry wolf
pala aga mampuna gurat pomparan batak~Very proud to have Batak bloodline
pala domu ma angkang mardua on~These two brothers are very compatible
pala lagut tu molo huingot asam~really sticks if I remember the value
pala las roha marhamlet dohot ho~really happy to date you
pala marsiak bagi siahapon mi baio~Your fate is very unfortunate, bro
pala tarhait di parhorasan jolma asing~very interested in the safety of others
palambas tanom dainang hu ale jahowa~expand my mother's grave, O Allah
palas daging au das au dungo~heat my body until I wake up
palas dalihan ni mamangke tolu batu~Heat the stove, using three stones
palelenghu asa sa jolma ndang saut~Over time, people don't do it
palua ma hami martimbanghon na jungkat~deliver us from evil
palua molo naung ndada boi dipartahanhon~let it go if it can no longer be maintained
palua molo ndang ambul muse marpogo~let go if you can no longer hold on
pamangke ingkon mambahen hamuna menak markarejo~the user must make you comfortable working
pamarenta nunga manontuhon ruhut di ditombom~The government has set rules to be broken
pamasuk bulung napuran na nunga diseat~Add the chopped betel leaves
pambahenan aha na boi didalanhon nuaeng~what business can be run now?
pambahenan burjum naeng mulak mandapothon ho~Your good deeds will return to you
pambahenan dosa na mangkorhon manisia tais~Sinful acts that cause people to be far away
pambahenan na pir ndada hea marjehe~Hard work never betrays
pamikkiron umuli dipadalan di bagas lungun~the best thinking is done in silence
panangga babi boraspati birubiru lali gaja~dog pig lizard sheep eagle elephant
panatapan maruarna ijo mambahen hita sogar~The green view makes us fresh
panatapan maruarna ijo mambahen mata sogar~The green view makes the eyes fresh
pandapotan ndada isi alai pangaluaran isi~there is no income but there are expenses
pangalaho angkang mambahen ina nangkok mudar~My sister's behavior made my mother angry
pangalaho hamu ndada patuduhon jolma silom~Your behavior does not reflect a Muslim
panganon musu ulaula hadatuon ingkon disalamathon~Anti-witchcraft food must be saved
panggadis mandasing harbue na nituhor panuhor~the seller weighs the rice purchased by the buyer
panghophopon kristus i naeng mangatim panesa~Christ's sacrifice will bring forgiveness
pangido ruas mi tomu tu son~ask your members to come here
pangido tangiang panumpak dohot pasombu sihol~ask for blessings and express your longing
pangituai pangoli tondong dohot asing asing~figures, bride and groom, family, and others
pangke masin panghiang asa hatop mahiang~Use a dryer to dry quickly
panglima haholomon mangabithon baju bosi di~the dark commander put armor on
pangondong anggi parompuan tu angkang parompuan~greeting from younger sister to older sister
pangondong jolma matua tu anak parompuan~greetings from parents to daughters
pangondong na sirsir di tulang bagas~A fitting greeting for Uncle Dalam
panompang sada dua mate sopola pirus~one or two passengers died without the virus
pantun otik ho rampak angkang mi~You're a little polite with your brother
pantun sorta manghatai tu jolma asing~politeness in speaking to other people
panungkupon ari parpudi ari on panuratan~Last day of registration closes today
panurat pala manjarga bulaling dohot poda~The author really wants criticism and suggestions
papituhon rambutan saok sun i parade~The seven fried rambutans are ready to be served
papos au ho ma na umuli~I assure you that you are the best
paradihon ma on naung tuk au~stop this. I'm tired
parasingan daong ma sidalian di marsirang~differences are not a reason for divorce
parbadia tudos darapati jongkas tudos ulok~holy as a dove cunning as a serpent
parbadiai tuhan dohot arta dohot badanmu~glorify God with your wealth and body
parbagasan dohot tutur tarsongon jabu balatuk~housing and household management
parbandaan, situmandok, tinambor, udean, tanoman, tambak~burial ground graves graves graves graves graves
parbogason hita naung marhitehite godang bongka~Our relationship has gone through a lot
parbue dabu ndada tais sian bonana~Fruit does not fall far from the tree.
parbue ido sai jeges tonggi bornok~the fruit is very nice sweet juicy
parbue mangga ni nari maruarna ijo~the mango was still green
parbue ndada dabu tais sian bonana~The fruit doesn't fall far from the tree
parbue ndang tabo digagat nandigan bibi~Fruit is not good to eat if it becomes sour
parbue salak adong ma parbue halomoonhu~Salak fruit is my favorite fruit
pardalanan tais nari aning dohot udur~long journey still waiting and queuing
pardijabu lahang marsiak bagi siahapon ama~Greedy wife poor father's fate
pardompahan landit godang marhua pardompahan porhot~Why are there so many slippery foreheads?
pardompahan landit godang marhua pardompahan porhot~There are a lot of slippery foreheads, why are your foreheads rough?
pardomuan hita naung rongkap dohot disihathon~Our meeting was a match and it was planned
pardonganon mi tudos nasa hibung jagung~Your friendship is like the size of a corn kernel
pareakhon borngin lobi denggan modom ondeng~At night it's better to just sleep
parhasomal puna baba dipangke bahen marhatai~Get used to having a mouth to use for talking
parhundul laos manggoarhon tao ni tao~The residents then named the lake a lake
parjuangan ingkon antong di dongani tangiang~The struggle must also be accompanied by prayer
parompuan indonesia mangarihon sisik sao masak~Indonesian women have brown skin
parompuan ingkon lambok bagas martarombo hata~women must be soft in their words
parompuan tudos ido godang panolangi sa~A woman like that has a lot of reserves
parpadanan ni marbangko basabasa dohot tongtong~the covenant is grace and eternal
parpudi nangkok motor panumpang bajur bolon~Lastly, take the masterpiece bus
parsaoran ni laos ris gogot didungdung~Harmony is quite difficult to achieve
parsial ho son ho bada hita~damn you! here you are fighting us
partahanhon holong na hita usung rap~maintain the love that we bear together
partanda pamarentaon isi i ginjang abarana~the coat of arms of government is on his shoulders
partano batoan apala timbo anggo hata~the fort is so high if you say so
partonding ni minggu tani na imbaru~the end of the new farming week
pasaut au panglima parporangan, i on~make me the warlord here
pasaut au pasupasu mi olo tuhan~make me your blessing, O God
pasombu adaran laut na ido bolak~let the expanse of the sea be so wide
pasombu au manghaholongimu dohot satulus rohahi~let me love you with all my heart
pasombu di tuan na mangalusi alusna~Let the master answer
pasombu ibana jamporon manjaha on luhut~let him be confused reading all this
pasombu jolma mengkel mangasungi musem mangasta~let people laugh insultingly and insultingly
pasombu nasida godang hata godang hata~let them brag
pasonang jo rohahi na raterate on~Please please my troubled heart first
pasonang jolma matua imbaru pandok toras~please parents. just said mature
pasonang roha hu sada loni ma~please my heart once
pasondothon gitarna dohot manataphu saotik bojok~stopped the guitar and looked at me a little confused
pasupasu be dalan naposom on tuhan~bless every path of your servant, God
pasupasu musem jolma na mangajar hami~bless also those who teach us
pasupasu naposom na gale on tuhan~bless your weak servant, God
pat mangalangka dohot mambalambal dohot togap~legs stride and swing firmly
patandahon goar au dohot angkup au~introduce my name and my partner
patimbohu hurang lobi tolu pulu meter~a height of approximately thirty meters
patingkos aha na nari boi dipadenggan~fix what can still be fixed
patoruhu roha hita ro tu jesus~Our humility comes to Jesus
patu jo hamuna unang mora apala~Be obedient first, don't be like that
paturehon peak hassa mata di rupana~adjusted the position of his glasses on his face
patut do ni digora jolma matua~Is it appropriate to be called a parent?
patut ma dang adong na olo~no wonder no one wants it
patut ondeng bohim pe roa loni~It's no wonder your face is ugly
paujung lungunmu tanggo hami be sangga~Don't worry about seeing us all the time
paulak ondeng au di ina hu~just send me home to my mother
pedan au i pale das marmudar~my friend was beaten until he bled
pedan hu pangke bahasa saor luhut~My friends all use slang
pedan torsa silehon turgas hasian au~my story friend, advisor, favorite,
pere pangujian motor sampulu lima mansam~free fifteen vehicle inspections
persi ende marsaringar soara sian bariba~the Batak version of the song comes from the other side
pidato olap ubat ni na begubeguon~speech about drugs
pidong pidong na martutu dohot damo~birds that sing melodiously
pidonghu tarae maronjat sangga mida borua~My bird feels tight when it sees girls
pikkiran au andorang gaor sangga on~My mind is a mess right now
pikkiranna hepeng torus ndada ra mago~his mind was on money and he didn't want to lose money
pillit ma au saut angkup ho~choose me to be your partner
pinarsinta sahalak anak pasonanghon jolma tuana~A child's desire to make his parents happy
pinggol mata igung pardompahan bibir hurum~ears, eyes, nose, forehead, lips, cheeks
pinggolhu mambege aha na hamuna sundur~my ears heard what you were talking about
pinomat au ate bargak tudos ho~At least I'm not a coward like you
pinomat au mangarti lapatan pardonganon tokke~at least I understand the meaning of friendship boss
pinsangpinsang na jo au dophon muruk~a rebuke that I once considered anger
pintor au tuk dohot luhut leakmu~Honestly, I'm tired of all your behavior
pintu au tongtong tedak di ho~My door is always open for you
pipi hamuna tudos bodat panangga babi~your faces are like monkeys dogs pigs
pipi ho bagak songon panangga riar~your face is beautiful like a stray dog
pipi sa sabi roha sa lambok~his face is fierce, his heart is soft
pipi tudos begu pangalaho tudos bodat~face like a ghost, behavior like a monkey,
pipot bohi apus dohot tangan guting~Wipe facial blemishes with dirty hands
pipot bohi apus dohot tangan ias~Wipe facial blemishes with clean hands
pir olo santisanti na parpudi ni~That last offering is hard
pirus on musem dohar manghorhonhon hamamate~This virus can also cause death
pirus on ndang dope didapot tambarna~There is no cure for this virus
pisang tohom laos ondol ae sa~Firm bananas really taste great
pisik nagara annon imbaru hulean boto~State secrets, I'll tell you later
pisik on holan hita mardua ondeng~This secret is just the two of us
pispis adong ma aek na metmet~splash is a small amount of water
pitpit bollang mata hu bege sa~I closed my eyes when I heard it
pitu april dua ribu dua pulu~April seven two thousand twenty
pogu gabe tonggi molo raphon ho~gall becomes sweet when it is with you
porlu saotik ragam asa ngolu i~it needs a little bit of variety to make it live
porlu saotik ragam asa ngolu ma~It needs to be a little different to live
porlu saotik ragam asa ngolu mi~You need a little something to live your life
porseama ina au naeng manopot hamuna~Believe me, mother, I will meet you
porseama jahoba manompahon manisia di marangkup~believe that Allah created humans to be in pairs
portibi ndada moror di lambung au~the world doesn't revolve around me
pos ni roha naeng omo umuli~confidence in the best results
poso boasa tuba songon dainang panoroni~why are you so fierce like a stepmother?
poti inganan holi holi ni ompung~a coffin containing the bones of ancestors
poto hamu jo hepengmunai sambil maniop~Take a photo of you holding your money first
poto rampak inangna anak anak kalas~photo with the mother of the class
pudi pudi on mambahen hita lomos~These days it makes us anxious
puji tuhan habar denggan las roha~praise God for the good news and heartwarming
pulo bahenan jambatan arbing dohot porlak~artificial islands, suspension bridges and parks.
pulo na mangarihon marmansam haulion lung~An island that has a variety of natural beauty
puna anak au ajar das balga~I have children who I educate until they grow up
puna hasiputon aha ho di medan~What are you busy with in the field?
puna pedan alai ndada ra marusaha~have friends but don't want to try
puna pedan pihit mate ondeng ho~If you have a stingy friend, you'll just die
punana hita ai dibahen alit bolit~It's our right to make things complicated
pungkul dorpi manghuling nanget be detik~The wall clock beeps every second
pungkul nasa on nari male do~Are you still hungry at this hour?
pungkul onom au paima di gudang~At six o'clock I waited in the warehouse
pungkul sadia ho ro asa hupaima~what time are you coming, let me wait
pungkul tonga opat ra meam rampak~at four o'clock do you want to play together?
punguan bintang marsinondang di roha hu~a collection of shining stars in my heart
punguan godang jolma di mangulahon parolopolopon~a gathering of many people to carry out a celebration
punguan sondang bintang di roha hu~combined starlight in my heart
punjung di bagas haadongon sangga on~alone in the current situation
pusatna anak borua au timbil bagak~Basically, my daughter is the most beautiful
pusupusu rohahi ho ma na huhasiholi~My heart, you are the one I miss
ra aha ondeng ompung boru tuhorhon~Grandma wants to buy anything
ra artana ndada ra anak siminikna~want his wealth, don't want his children and grandchildren
ra das sadihari hita so marhatai~How long are we going to go on strike?
ra diantusi suba ho mangarti hami~want to understand? try to understand us
ra do ho marhamlet dohot au~do you want to date me?
ra do ho marsitandaan dohot au~would you like to get to know me?
ra do ho mengendos dohot hu~do you want to have sex with me?
ra do ho saut pardijabu au~would you like to be my wife?
ra do ho sohot dohot ahu~are you ready to marry me?
ra ho martapian tu aek batang~Do you want to take a shower at Aek Batang?
ra hutogihon ho mangan diruar marsogot~I want to take you out to eat tomorrow
ra ibana marpanghorhon denggan manang ndada~whether he has a good influence or not
ra manangani surat hatorangan ndada ambul~want to take care of a certificate of incapacity
ra manggotil alai ndada ra manggotil~want to pinch but don't want to pinch
ra mangido pasupasu dohot panesa dosa~want to ask for blessings and forgiveness of sins.
ra marsadi sikkola alang tongkin muse~I want to stop going to school soon
ra pangido di jabu kilo sia~want to ask at home kilo nine
ra pasohot anakkonna na baea baea~wants to marry off her son
ra tagi utang na nangkin borngin~I want to collect last night's debt
ra tu aek timbung marsogot hita~We're going to the waterfall tomorrow
ra tu dolok dia saut sa~Which mountain do you want to go to?
radot babami unang das ho hupamate~watch your mouth lest I kill you
radot dirim denggan radot musem hasehatonmu~take good care of yourself. also take care of your health
radot hagompison ama di an olo~Take care of your health there, okay?
radot tali pardonganon taru hombar jabu~maintain the ties of brotherhood between neighbors
radoti nangkat dohot gogo unang magopo~save bullets and energy, don't waste it
rame sahali alai ndada isi kopina~very busy but there is no coffee
ramot arian ama ina loloan sasudena~Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, everyone
ramot arian jolma na pangalaho nadenggan~good afternoon dear people
ramot borngin asi anggiat hojot malum~good night darling, get well soon
ramot borngin bagak nipi jeges olo~good night beautiful, sweet dreams yeah
ramot borngin boruboru tagas na dihaholongi~good night beloved dream woman
ramot dalan anggiat pangurupion marminggu dijangkon~goodbye, may your deeds of worship be accepted
ramot dalan damang diahap marangkup mi~Goodbye dad is with you
ramot ginjang hatutubu anak boru parjolona~congratulations on the birth of your first daughter
ramot ginjang hatutubu baoa parjolo ama~congratulations on the birth of your first son
ramot ginjang hatutubu pahompu parjolo sa~congratulations on the birth of your first grandchild
ramot ginjang herbang mi tua ilmuna~congratulations on your degree, a blessing of knowledge
ramot ginjang moruna umur ngolum dongan~congratulations on reducing your lifespan, friend
ramot ginjang oroanna anggiat sonang tongtong~congratulations on your fiancé, may you always be happy
ramot ho hasea paotootohon roha on~Congratulations, you succeeded in deceiving this heart
ramot mangatim sipanganon sian horong hami~Enjoy the dishes from our group
ramot manghajongjonghon anggiat on boho hamuna~Enjoy watching, I hope this satisfies you
ramot manogot dohot ramot pudi onan~good morning and happy weekend
ramot manogot manjonok arian itohu luhut~good morning before noon all my brothers
ramot marhalado dohot tabe hipas tongtong~happy serving and healthy greetings always
ramot marsiulaon unang lupa radot hagompison~Happy work, don't forget to take care of your health
ramot martumpol ramot mandalani ngolu imbaru~Happy engagement, happy new life
ramot marujung onan bahen hamuna luhut~happy weekend to all of you
ramot mauli bulung anggiat sonang pedan~happy happiness, may it last forever friend
ramot mida ni mangihut bonar ngolu~Congratulations on seeing the followers, enthusiasm for life
ramot modom anggiat ho nipihon au~good night, hope you dream of me
ramot oroan anggiat hamuna sonang tongtong~Happy fiancé, I hope you are always happy
ramot pakansi ramot marsonang las roha~happy holidays, have fun
ramot sada taon parbagason hita asi~happy one year of our marriage dear
ramot sohot pangoli hu na bagak~happy marriage my beautiful bride
ramot tading au pala ndada mangarimpu~goodbye, I really didn't expect it
ramot ulak taon anak boru raja~happy birthday princess
ramot ulak taon angkang pajumpang balga~happy birthday big brother
ramot ulak taon asi tuhan mangangkupi~happy birthday God's love be with you
ramot ulak taon tu ualu pulu~happy eightieth birthday
rampak hita muse so musem tortorhon~At the same time, we are also stuck in a traffic jam
rampak mangaduk hita nandigan isi hasalaan~Same corrects us if there is a mistake
rampak ndada mora parende tulen sa~Isn't it the same as the original singer?
rampak songon ahu na aning sintana~just like me who is waiting for his love
ransap marguru tagan dohar jolma batak~Calculate the practice before you become a Batak person
rap dohot pedan mamparhaseanghon tempo on~together with friends, take advantage of this holiday
rap hundul margait di topi tao~together sitting joking on the edge of the lake
rap hundul markato di topi tao~together sitting and telling stories by the lake
rap jolma na timbil hu holong~with the person I love most
rap mamungka di masarakat na marabahan~together to build a cultured society
rap panurirang ho meam lua lua~with the prophet you play run and run
rap sarupa hita pature huta antaran~together we can fix our hometown
rapma au musem ndada isi hepeng~I also don't have any money
rapma hita au pe ndada boto~Same with us, I don't know either
rapot bangko maradong bagas sada bangso~Traditional congregations are in one tribe
rase inangna asa ndada hosing muse~exterminate the mother so it doesn't come back
rase sabungan asa ndada hosing muse~exterminate the mother so it doesn't come back again
repot adong dope na lobi ringkot~busy, there are still more important things
repot luhut tupa manang godang ardoan~busy with everything possible or a lot of business
reso mulak isi surirang sasara detil~Please check the contents of the information again in detail
rias on bunga ni holong hu~This matchstick tree is the rose of my loves
rias pa bunga di holong hu~The matchstick tree is the rose of my love
rias pa gombar di holong hu~The matchstick tree is a picture of my love
rias pa gombar ni holong hu~The matchstick tree is a picture of my loves
rimas boi manghorhonhon umur hatop matua~Anger can cause you to age quickly
ringgas giot ma hita manunsi tangan~Be diligent and diligent in washing your hands
rintop loni bodat inang baju on~This aunt's armpits itch
rintop loni saut jolma tudos gilok~It's itchy to be someone like a caterpillar
ris ari on ondeng au porsuk~I'm suffering enough for today
ris boto holan ndada mangarimpu ondeng~I know enough, I just didn't expect it
ris giot mardame dohot diri sadasa~enough to want to be at peace with yourself
ris hita mamburai i roha ondeng~, just let us curse in our hearts
ris lehon soso ndada porlu tudostudos~just give advice no need for comparison
ris na bulus denggan dohot pantun~just simple, good and civilized
rittik sa jolma dibahen tuak ni~It's crazy that people are made of palm wine
ro angkang panggadis hassa mata hape~The glasses seller's brother came
ro dohot patorop bungaran ari hamardekaan~Come and celebrate Independence Day
ro ma bagas minggu on musem~come this week too
ro muse mangan laos au dampol~come again and eat. I'll give you a massage
ro sirsir isi anture sa sajo~Just come when you need it
ro sopola diontang lao sopola parmisi~came without being invited and left without saying goodbye
ro tu son adopi parbagason hami~come attend our wedding
ro tu son atup sigomgom sibolis~let's face it, demon lord!
ro tu son baio gulut mulak~let's take it back bro
ro tu son di ihut marsiadu~come here to compete
ro tu son hita lulu balu~let's look for the widow
ro tu son hita mamuji jesus~let's praise jesus
ro tu son hita manjaha bibel~let's read the bible
ro tu son hita marjoget rap~let's dance together
ro tu son hita pasada roha~let's unite our hearts
ro tu son hita radot hadameon~let's keep it safe
ro tu son hita rimang damangna~let's look at his father
ro tu son hita tomu haadongon~let's welcome the presence
ro tu son luhut hita ontap~let's all prevent it
ro tu son mardomu dohot marsada~let's join and unite
ro tu son mardomu rap hami~let's join us
ro tu son mardongan dohot au~come be friends with me
ro tu son marende dohot manortor~let's sing and dance
ro tu son marende padan parbadia~let's sing the holy promise
ro tu son marende rap rampak~let's sing together
ro tu son pakansi muse asi~let's go on holiday again darling
ro tu son parbadiai ina hita~Come on, glorify our mothers
ro tu son rampak rampak porsan~let's bear it together
ro tu son torusson maname boni~let's continue planting seeds
ro tujabu au annon diparade panganon~Come home and I'll be served food
ro tuson hita gunsang portibi on~let's shake up this world
ro udan na hian dobar ma~very heavy rain came
rodina dang adong iboto manang dongan~so there are no relatives or friends
rodina dohot sandirina ingkon masuk tu~so it automatically has to go into
rodina ndada ra mangurupi jolma asing~so you don't want to help other people
roha au bojok alai hea marhapateon~My heart is confused even though I was once committed
roha busisa haporseaonhu pe buhai mellep~My restless heart began to dim in my faith
roha di apul ndang ra menak~the heart is comforted and doesn't want to calm down
roha niba holan anak mi holi~My thoughts are only your son's bones
roha niba holan anak mi tulang~My only thought is your child, uncle
roha on mangaehon isi na manolang~My heart feels like there's something wrong with it
roha roha ho unang godang pantas~Be careful not to talk too much
roha roha rampak sialap ingkau pargabus~Be careful with the tongue of a liar
roha tondi naung ndang habilangan odong~the soul's heart has countless directions
rohahi lumbang agan nari saotik ngorngor~My heart is relieved even though I'm still a little anxious
rohahi ndada boi manjalo hasesega on~my heart can't take this damage
roma hita lao hita i suru~Come on, let's go, we've been sent
rondangma na imbaru di loni on~a new one is published this time
rongit sa masuk tu roha mi~the mosquito enters your heart
rongkap sa na ndang dope isi~his soul mate doesn't exist yet
ruar somal hagogoon holong dohot asi~extraordinary power of love and affection
ruas na simbur di adopan tuhan~a congregation that grows before God
rundinghon roha pandokan targora dohot donganmu~discuss the meaning of the sentence with your friend
saae isi na manolang di simalolonghi~I feel like there's something stuck in my eyes
saahap giot manggora di pasonanghon roha~I felt like screaming to relieve my heart
sabarma angkanghu, naeng andal di tingkina~Be patient my brother, it will be beautiful in time
sabiji aropan sahalak di tano matau~a hope of someone in a foreign land
saboi gogo hu naeng hu bagihon~I will give as much as I can
sabotulna naung boto au bangko nasida~Actually, I already know their behavior
saburju on ho rampak au asi~this is as good as you and me darling
sada aropan hu anggiat rongkap hita~My one hope is that we will be together
sada borngin on ndada isi ongkos~this one night there is no rent
sada horong tutur bagas rapot bangko~a group of relatives in a traditional congregation
sada jolma dolidoli boi patinda portibi~one young man can change the world
sada na hupangido radot rohami tuau~one thing I ask you to guard your heart for me
sada taon na andalu obukhu jempek~One year ago my hair was short
sada taon na salpu obukhu jempek~one year ago my hair was short
sada tapol bunga na tudos dirim~a bunch of flowers that resemble you
sada tonahu totar dirim das sangap~one of my messages. develop yourself until you are successful.
sada tumpal iboto saleleng ni lelengna~one crown brother forever
sadado aropan hu anggiat rongkap hita~My only hope is that we will be together
sadasa ondeng godang dongan marbohi dua~Of course, many of my friends are two-faced
sadia arga sada kilo dengke on~how much does one kilo of this fish cost?
sadia bada umur ho dohot anggina~what is the age difference between you and your sister?
sadia dengganna tuhan manompahon nagari on~how beautiful God created this country
sadia godang na giot ho sali~how much do you want to borrow?
sadia godang na giot ho sali~how much do you want to borrow?
sadia halina hu pandok rampak mi~how many times have I told you?
sadia hepeng boli na ho pangido~how much dowry money do you ask for?
sadia molo sinamot ni boru sinaga~how much is the dowry for Boru Sinaga?
sadia nomor denggan botari on amang~what are the good numbers this afternoon sir?
sadia sinamotna asa i topot torus~how much is the dowry so that he continues to propose?
sadihari au diboan mulak tu medan~when will I be brought back to the field
sadihari dalan dalan hita tu pasir~when are we going to the beach?
sadihari do au boi manopoti dirim~when can I meet you?
sadihari hita meam kartu i tompa~when do we play cards at the place
sadihari langka on boi rap mi~when can this step be with you
sadihari lao lului hepeng marmodoman songonon~When are you going to make money lying down like this?
sadihari ngolu tongtong tiur dohot dame~when life is always bright and peaceful
sadihari olo ho puna piaraan muse~when will you have another pet?
sadihari tartuktuk ho ingkon dohar mi~When do you stumble you have to get you
saedo au so mulak pamenakhon diri~When I finished, I calmed down and calmed myself down
saema naung ho manggosa roha on~It's enough that you've hurt this heart.
saep amangamanghu anggiat habahaba hatop lao~Be patient, my husband, I hope the storm will pass quickly
saep amangamanghu anggiat habahaba hatop salpu~Be patient, my husband, I hope the storm passes quickly
saep dohot sun manjalo pirdo hangoluon~patient and ready to accept the hardships of life
saep huhut godang martangiang bahen inang~be patient and pray a lot for mother
saep luhut masala isi dalan haruarna~Be patient, all problems have a solution
saep ma unang buru buru ninna~Be patient, don't rush, he said
saep olo asi hita naeng pajumpang~Be patient, darling, we will meet
sagi habut di langit na balau~for the mist in the blue sky
sagi jolma batak unang di terjemahon~For Batak people, don't translate it
sagi ni panjaha sumurung sagi panurat~for readers, especially writers
sagi tuhan ndang na ndang ra~for God nothing is impossible
sahalak bidadari siulubalang ari sopola handehande~an earth angel without a shawl
sahalak kristen parsidohot tuhan jesus kristus~a Christian follower of the Lord Jesus Christ
sahalak panuturi diri ndada naeng tois~a self-defender will not be arrogant
sahalak parhauma na pala ringgas markarejo~a farmer who is very diligent in working
sahali dua loni bolas di pasip~once or twice you can leave it alone
sahali malluga dua tolu pulo tolpus~Once rowed two or three islands crossed
sahali on ndada dimuruki au marmeam~for once without being scolded I played
sahali tolu loni bolas di pasip~once or three times you can leave it alone
saharan di binanga binanga lampak simalolonghi~dam on the river the river of my eyelids
sahatop sa au tu angkang olo~I'll go to my sister as soon as possible
sai lam hu tatap dompak bohimi~so that I can see your face more and more
sai naeng hutiop daging mi gomos~I always want to hold your body tightly
sai tibu modom nunga borngin on~hurry up and sleep tonight
saingkondo ndada marpangalaho risi tudos ido~shouldn't behave so rudely
sajago aha parmeaman mi au dohoti~No matter how good your game is, I'll follow it
sala mamunten ho ate ibana halakna~I misjudged you, not him
sala mamunten ho sala manghaholongi ho~wrong to judge you wrong to love you
sala sada inganan na pinahamat sihabiaran~one of the places considered sacred
sala sahalak na mandohoti bagas ngoluhu~one of the people who plays a role in my life
salamat mangana, manjaga unjun ina guru~good luck supervising the exam, teacher
salang dua taon mula parpudi mardomu~It's been two years since we last met
saleleng on martubi ndada boto ondeng~All this time I just didn't know
saleleng on martubi ndada mangarti ondeng~All this time I just didn't understand
saleleng tuan ra antong manggohi sada~as long as you are willing to fulfill one
salese ndada tarhirim ndada hansit roha~breaking even, not disappointed, not hurt
salik ingkon di balos dohot mudar~Slander must be repaid with blood
salpu boasa aha bogasna rampak hami~So what? what does it have to do with us?
salpu di aha biar dohot hapuloan~then why be afraid of being alone?
salpu hita pamasuk tubagas botol pansar~then we put it in a spray bottle
salpu juni ro ma bulan juli~Already in June, July came
salpu lomo sopola sidalian boha pe~I just love it without any reason.
salpu mangula tano di jolo kabupaten~then hoe the land in front of the district
samansam goragora na tongon baen ho~a kind of nickname that suits you
samansam hassang na balga dali podang~a type of large bean large soybean
sampulu bongka na mamorluhon rumar olle~ten things that require zero talent
sanding daong didiori molo pajumpang dipasiding~The enemy is not sought if one is avoided
sandok sopo nasida gok dohot eme~all their barns were full of rice
sandu ho ate sandu ubat ramun~Your addiction is not an addiction to illegal drugs
sanga ho ose naeng hilalahon hinorhonna~if you break it, you will feel the consequences
sangap torus dohot totar olle mi~Continue to be successful and develop your talents
sangga haporseaon dibarukbak halenseng pe mullop~when trust is broken, doubt arises
sangga naeng mangan isi sambal torsok~when you want to eat, there is delicious chili sauce
sangga on au andorang mandalanhon tingki~I'm currently running time
sangga suasana mohop hatuaon ndada mardingkan~when the heat is up, luck is not on your side
sangga tarnata damang ndang ebat mangalap~when it turned out that my father didn't come to pick me up
sanggak totong mamereng ibana hatotong au~surprised to see it surprised me
sangkap burjuhu mananda ho lobi tais~I have good intentions of getting to know you better
sangkap denggan tongtong di tatap buruk~Good intentions are always seen as bad
sangkap dohot karejo pir ingkon dos~Intention and hard work must be balanced
sangkap hian ma rampak sipatu on~I really like these shoes
sangkap na denggan naeng marboras tonggi~Good intentions will bear sweet fruit
santabi adong dope iboto di jabu~Sorry, there are still relatives at home
santabi aha soara au ndada tarbege~sorry, can't my voice be heard?
santabi angkang nantuari suda tohap au~Sorry bro, yesterday my quota ran out
santabi au imbaru marsiajar marbahasa on~sorry, I'm just learning this language
santabi au sura ho jolma asing~Sorry, I thought you were someone else
santabi gunahon bahasa indonesia dohot sintong~sorry, use Indonesian correctly
santabi kuliah taon jolo beha ateate~sorry about going to college next year how do you feel
santabi ndada naeng patinda tingki salpu~sorry won't change the past
santokin biangna ni torus mandohoti ibana~while the dog continued to follow him
santokin ni musem badanmu tarae manghitiri~Immediately your body felt shivering
saotik godangna ingkon hot di hamauliatehon~You should still be grateful for a little bit
saotik tatapan sa magale manatap hu~His gaze slightly weakened looking at me
sapata passorion malua saut sega hita~As a result of promiscuity, we are damaged
sapata tu tondong balu alani pambahenanna~karma for the widow's family for her actions
saptu nabodari borhat minggu nabodari mulakna~Saturday night leaving, Sunday night returning home
sara dapot hepeng godang beha sarana~how to get a lot of money
sara mamillit boni timbil naung leleng~the most classic way of sorting seeds
sarana hadungon tungkot di manghail pidong~method, the tip of the stick is for luring birds
saribu humordit au marsinggang i patmu~a thousand regrets I kneel at your feet
sarima inganan ho diparhambol ate diporluhon~Look for a place where you are appreciated, not needed
sasahalak mamparingothon na naeng mardalan tigor~. someone warned who wanted to walk straight
sasahali ibana mangalului dengke di binanga~Occasionally he looks for fish in the river
sasaotik au mangarti lobina ndada mangarti~I understand a little bit, I don't understand the rest
sasintongna au hea lomo rampak ibana~actually I used to like him
sasintongna au ndang margapgap nari manghaholongimu~Actually I'm not lying, I still love you
sasude bangso mamuji dohot ambil jahoba~all nations praise and glorify God
sasude desa mintop ndang na boi~all corners are stuck, no one can do it
sasude hinorus maol hita naeng hagararan~all our hard work will be paid off
sasude muningan tete monjap manang hundul~all questions about squatting or sitting
sasude sinamago boi dipalese lopus ria~All problems can be resolved through deliberation
sasudena demi tingki jolo na logo~all for the sake of a bright future
sasudena hu paolooloi demi ho asi~I do everything for you darling
sasudena ndada isi na tong tongtong~nothing is eternal/eternal
sasudena tarae pala bonton dohot mangalojai~everything felt very heavy and tiring
satahi dohot saoloan i hauma tuhan~agree and agree in God's field
satonga bahen au satonga bahen ho~half for me, half for you
satutuna ateate hu hian pala hansur~In fact, I feel very, very devastated
saut ahama gunani ho hadang marga~So what's the function of your surname?
saut alai pardagingon dang adong hepeng~so but you don't have any money
saut anak ranto ni ingkon jogi~So overseas children have to be tough
saut au marpungu dohot ise ondeng~so I group with anyone
saut beha torsa parsintaan mi rampak~So what's your love story?
saut boha ido hopal na haram~so how is that a shipwreck
saut boha parbogason ho dohot nahinaholongan~So how is your relationship with the king?
saut gareja manogot on dilaluhon jo~So we missed church this morning
saut ho antong na pinsang au~So you are the one who advises me
saut ho lomona baea baea olo~So you like men huh?
saut ho sali sipatu mi ni~so you borrow your shoes
saut ho topoti dongan mi ni~so you meet your friend
saut ibana ai mangeaki ho torus~So why does he keep chasing you?
saut jolma na ris dohot martuani~be a sufficient and grateful person
saut laoma au tu inganan ni~so I went to that place
saut las roha rohahi mamereng ibana~so I'm happy to see it
saut manisia ingkon manganju dohot ugamo~So humans must be tolerant of religion
saut manisia urupi unang marpahu jabir~So humans please don't be too chatty
saut marlapatan uhum sa apala olo~So that means the rules are like that, right?
saut nari udan ma di an~so it's still raining there
saut ndada isi na ondingonding au~so nothing is stopping me
saut opat hiap di lante dua~so four fans for the second floor
saut pangemor ni di huta jolma~being a bandit in someone's village
saut pangisi ni huta batak santokin~become a temporary Batak resident
saut sidalian hami mambahen tudos on~so the reason we made it like this
saut sihol tagan karejo di an~So I miss working there
saut tarmali tondi mida tolor on~so traumatized seeing this egg
saut unang mida tupudi berengma tujolo~So don't look back, look forward
seat sada sagi tolu di natal~cut one into three for Christmas
seat sada seat dua di natal~cut one into two for Christmas
sega naung las ni roha au~My happiness has been ruined
sehat alai hepeng dang adong isi~healthy but the money is not there
senen hita poto rampak muse da~Monday, let's take a photo together again
sial hian huhilala au di si~damn first I think I'm on the
siamun hambirang pir lambok paet tonggi~right left hard soft bitter sweet
sian bahasa asalna ulos marlapatan salimut~From the original language, ulos means blanket
sian di lelengleleng au mate tarpusa~after a long time I died in torment
sian di mirdong tabo marjoget hita~Instead of getting dizzy, it's nice to dance
sian di raterate tabo marjoget hita~instead of being confused, it's good to dance
sian di susa tabo marjoget hita~instead of making it difficult for us to dance
sian di tondong au na tarasup~rather than my family being threatened
sian dia ale, sian muara ale~where do you come from, from the estuary?
sian dia do iboto jamu i~where did you know about this herbal medicine?
sian dia do pajolo hu ambil~Where did you get it from first?
sian dia hita buhai siat sa~where do we start loading it?
sian dia hu isi pulsa mu~where do I top up your credit?
sian holong rundut na ho dalani~from the complicated love you live
sian jo ho lomo mamorso lapatani~You've always liked to lie, translate
sian mula nang marmula sian dongan~From the beginning it also started with friends
sian nangkin pe nunga suriga au~I've been suspicious ever since
sian nantuari au mamikkiri masala ni~I've been thinking about that problem since yesterday
sian sasude silangko na isi tuho~from all the shortcomings that you have
sidalian na huroa ndada boi dipauba~reasons that may not be changeable
sidalianna alani asa pinahan ndada ripur~the reason is so that animals do not become extinct
sidalianna asa jonok dohot tondong olo~The reason is to be close to family
sigaret mambunu mi au manghaholongimu asi~Cigarettes are killing you, I love you darling
sihar mataniari manggorahon goarmu na huhasiholi~the sunlight mentions your name that I miss
sihol alai daina au gogot manatahon~I miss you but I find it hard to say
sihol ama unsok na andorang karejo~Miss Ucok's father who is working
sihol dohot giot daina huhaol gomos~I miss you and I want to hug you tightly
sihol holong na tongtong manginggalhon au~I miss my darling who always pampers me
sihol naeng parpunguan dohot ho dongan~miss being with you friend
siingoton jeges rap mi nunga manghansitihu~The beautiful memories with you have hurt me
siingoton ndada laos pa di kalimantan~unforgettable memories in Kalimantan
siingoton tu jolma sintong mangahon pasupasu~remembrance of the righteous brings blessings
siingotonna marpahu jeges di di lupahon~the memories are too beautiful to forget
siinumon alkohol sopola sampuran lobi tabo~unmixed alcoholic drinks are better
sijalo sipsip alai utokutok sa jugul~quiet but brainless
simangot badia mangudurhon hita mangadopi hagogoton~Holy Spirit leads us to face difficulties
singkat ni patik parjolo dohot lapatanna~replace the first commandment with its meaning
sinta ndang marali, maralus ni naboritan~unrequited love is painful
sintahi tuho holan sintap angan angan~My love for you is just a dream
sintamu manjehei holong na naung manghaholongimu~your love betrays the love that already loves you
sintasintana anggiat ganjang umur hipas tongtong~The hope is to live a long, healthy life
sintong sahali au halakna tudos ni~It's true, I'm that kind of person
sipanganon na rade na nunga pinatupa~the dishes that have been provided
sipata au ndada sagogo batu harang~sometimes I'm not as strong as a rock
sipata gari au mengkel bagas roha~Sometimes I even laugh inside
sipata hita ingkon mamorso demi hadengganon~sometimes we have to lie for good
sipata luhut pikkiran hita mambahen halenseng~sometimes all our thoughts create doubt.
sipata minar dohot dohot sipata lungun~sometimes cheerful and sometimes sad
sipata na dihaholongi lomo lupa diri~Sometimes those you love like to forget themselves
sipata na dihaholongi lomo lupa sian~Sometimes those you love like to forget
sipata nasida sahera na nang mamboto~sometimes they seem to know best
sipata ndada rampak dohot bahasa indonesiana~sometimes it's not the same as Indonesian
sipata sipata solot ponggolon surat tonel~sometimes there are pieces of drama scripts tucked away
sipma ho bodat, nunga borngin on~Shut up you monkey, it's already nighttime
sir ngoluhu mago dungkon damang ndang~My passion for life disappeared after my father died
siregar sian dia do ipar i~Where does the Siregar clan come from?
sisean marudur dohot, rap, raphon anture~students line up neatly
sisean on porlu diajari alani jekjek~This student needs to be counseled because he is naughty
sisik tarutung pala pinsur dohot sogir~Durian skin is very sharp and dangerous
situak natonggi di anak angkip mangan~honey for children to eat greedily
soara aek na durus ni pamenakhon~the sound of flowing water is soothing
soara ho mambahen sio roha au~Your voice makes my heart calm
soaram jeges das manegai gondang pinggolhu~Your voice is so good it breaks my eardrums
soaram pa damo saut mangendehon ma~Your voice is beautiful, so sing
sobu sasahalak marsoara rarak dohot bagas~someone shouted in a deep, hoarse voice
sodap sahali olo himpu dohot tondong~It's really nice to gather with family
sogo loni au tanggo ho tanga~I'm sick of looking at you, bastard!
sohot hita taon na ro hasian~Let's get married next year darling
soksok giot rimas rimas huhut gora~annoyed, want to get angry and scream
somal ondeng mate satongkin ditadinghon hamlet~It's normal for your sister to be abandoned by her boyfriend
somal ondeng ndada isi na mangendat~just normal nothing interesting
son au galmit hurumna na balga~Here I pinch his chubby cheeks
son au umma hurumna na balga~Here I kiss his chubby cheek
son martumbuk ondeng au ndada biar~Come on, just box, I'm not afraid
sonang loni hamuna i ginjang sidangolonhi~happy you are above my suffering
sonang manggora tu donganna dohot tongam~Ria shouted to her friend loudly.
sonang ondeng sasudena naeng mulak jeges~just relax everything will be beautiful again
sonang pa hepeng miak annon olo~The oil money will be safe later, right?
sonangma di ginjang siaginon jolma asing~be happy over other people's suffering
sonangma dohot sada na hamuna arihon~be happy with what you have
sonangma rap jolma badia siding tuhan~be happy with the saints beside God
sonangma roha jolma matua mamereng ibana~parents are happy to see it
sonangna dohar ummaon sian haholongan roha~It's nice to get a kiss from your lover
sonangna ido sangga mangendat tali hailna~he was happy when he pulled the fishing line
sonangna tanggo hamuna marsipature bahasa huta~It's nice to see you preserving regional languages
sondot das sangga on nari manungkun~Until now, I still ask
songon bunga na melos di hauma~like a withering flower in the field
songon dia boasa boi ho talu~how can you lose?
songon dia boi au ndada hasea~how can I be useless?
songon dia do angkang parompuan on~how is this older sister
songon dia do babi hita ni~how are our pigs?
songon dia do torsa tarutung ni~what's the story of durian?
songon dia habar ho mate satongkin~How are you bro?
songon dia marende sambil maridi ho~how to sing while you shower
songon dia menak di di san~how comfortable it is there
songondia sara au mandapothon nilai denggan~how do i get good grades
songondia tunduk hamuna na marmarga batak~How obedient are those of you with the Batak surname?
songoni anggo marsi mangantusi naeng bongak,~So if we understand each other it will be great
songoni dia pulang dang adong ongkos~So there's no charge going home
songonima habar sian au tabe kedanmu~That's all the news from me, greetings, your friend
songonima sian hami dohot jalo asi~that's all from us and thank you
songonima sian hami horong lima mauliate~That's all from us, group five, thank you
songonna ho adong ma hot jagar~as you are still beautiful
songonon ma anggo ibana sedan rimas~this is what happens when he's angry
songonon ma anggo leleng ndada maretong~this is how it is if you don't count for a long time
songonon ma ngolu on paula sonang~this is how life is pretending to be happy
songonon ma siahapon anakmi diparalangalangan ina~This is the fate of your child abroad
songonon ompung dolihu marhatai bahasa batak~This is how my grandfather speaks Batak language
sopi apel migar tarup balimbing ugasan~sour apple wine star fruit roof thing
sopola disuru dohot ditogu angkup manisia~without being told or guided by humans
sopola ho hami ndada boi hasea~without you we could not have succeeded
sopola pardomuan pe au hot manghaholongimu~Even without meeting, I still love you
sorang sian bortian boruboru sa au~born from my woman's womb
suansuanan bunga harangan na jeges halomoonhu~my favorite beautiful forest flower plant
suasana borngin dohot suasana manogot pinjil~the atmosphere at night and the atmosphere in the morning are different
suasana lam hebo di parhutaan on~The atmosphere is getting more and more excited in this village
suba halang ulu ni ho pale~Try hitting that pillow
suba handit hinan ra manea tokkin~try lifting it first and want to consider it for a moment
suba ho paspas ulu jolma ni~try slapping that person's head
suba ho purun palito ni olo~try lighting that lantern, OK?
suba sungkuni torus pigapiga bongka on~keep asking these questions
subama di ndada manggabusi jolma asing~try not to lie to others
suda manangko mangga di tano tulang~after stealing mangoes on uncle's land
suda ni ditatap diririt torus nituhor~After seeing it, you choose it and then buy it
suda sude hepeng hu bahen manuhor~I used up all my money for snacks
suda tongos on do pe manimuk~After sending it then it disappeared
sude marsoban bulu inang na lambok~all looking for firewood bamboo greetings of respect and affection for the gentle birth mother
suman bodat di kobun binatang ho~like the monkeys in your zoo
sumbaiang ni lobi denggan martimbanghon modom~prayer is better than sleep
sumisi na puna sosar ra karejo~those who have stalls want to work
sun angkang unang lupa tohap olo~ready bro, don't forget your quota
sun das pajumpang marsogot di marlange~ready to see you tomorrow for swimming
sun dipaian dinas i sandok indonesia~ready to be placed in service throughout Indonesia
sun hami lugahon parau holong on~We are ready to sail this boat of love
sun malala demi arga diri anak~ready to bend for the sake of the child's self-esteem
sunggul diri ho ate anian ibana~Realize that you are no match for him
sunggul diri ndada saburju mantan mi~Realize that you're not as good as your ex
sunggul diri tagan manginsak jolma asing~Be aware before criticizing others
sungkun, boasa halak batak lomo marjudi~ask, why Batak people like to gamble
sungkunhon ho la aha ra sa~ask him what he wants
suping ho mambahen roha on durus~Your smile makes this heart melt
suping lupa pa satangkirisap boban ni~smile, forget the burden for a moment
suping mi manugan pa panailian hu~Your smile diverts my gaze
suping mi musem mangeur portibi hu~Your smile also changes my world
suping tonggi mi mambahen hu tarapul~Your sweet smile makes me entertained
supingan mi adong ma leheng mi~Your smile is your character
supingma i sangga roha mi mangangguk~smile when your heart cries
surathon suansuanan na boi saut ubat~Write down plants that can be used as medicine
surgo di palak pat ina hu~heaven at my mother's feet.
surung asi alai ndada isi hapateon~dear advantages but there is no certainty
surusuruan siulubalang ari na ndang marhabong~wingless earth angel
surusuruan tuhan dabu tu siulubalang ari~God's angel fell to earth
susa loni mata on dihara modom~It's hard to get these eyes to sleep
susa mambuha pa isi roha on~It's hard to express what's in my heart
susa sahali ngolu di tano ranto~it's very difficult to live in a foreign land
ta parade songon ganti ilu manetek~we prepare it like changing tears
tabe abak sagi hita iboto iboto~Peace be upon us brothers and sisters
tabe sada tondi marsada indonesia hu~Greetings, one united soul, my Indonesia
tabe sian huta batak parompuanna bagak~Greetings from Banjar, Batak women are beautiful
tabe sihol di holonghi marabit rara~longing greetings to my darling in red
tabe sihol sian au i parbolatan~Greetings from me at the border
tabe tanda au sian jaua purba~Greetings, I'm from East Java
tabo ma dilat ijur sadasa dongan~Is it nice to lick your own saliva, friend?
tabur nai au tu boru on~I was exposed to the rehearsal that I did to this girl
tading di gonti ondeng marga sa~Just change the surname
tading manuturi ari hita tu jolo~just planning our day ahead
tading siingoton memori hita na jo~only the memories of our past remain
tading tudoshon detikna pa saut banje~Just match the seconds and it'll be done
tadinghon ibana na mangalean aropan lipe~leave him who gives false hope
tadinghon na tarlambat tompur na ondingonding~leave it late. hit anything that gets in the way
tagan asi turgas suru marpikkir jo~Before giving an assignment, think first
tagan pakansi digogo luhut ulaon ni~During the holidays I'm forced to do all the work
tagan parbadaan ido muba jala parbadaan~before the argument turned into a fight
tahina hatiha ido ra seat babi~His intention at that time was to slaughter pork
tahina sangga ido ra seat babi~His intention at that time was to slaughter pork
tahitahi au giot jala sahalak panurat~My dream is to become a writer.
tais hami sian bongka na mangolap~far away from anything that opposes us
talipon tangan ise on tarampe marsineangan~Whose cellphone is this lying around haphazardly?
tamba hipas dohot lam dipasupasu tuhan~become healthier and more blessed by God
tamba matua tamba godang na dipikkirhon~The older you get, the more you think about it
tambun sinar bintang di roha hu~the starlight gathered in my heart
tammat kuliah giot naung rap mi~After graduating from college, I want to be with you
tammat sikkola hot ripe mamintor olo~Graduated from school and got married straight away
tanda tanda pangingani narongko songon ho~characteristics of hell dwellers like you
tandahon ma au tu boru borui~I know that woman
tandai au sian bagas ate ruarna~know me from the inside, not the outside
tandai haporluon mi daoi pinarsinta mi~Know your needs, stay away from your desires
tangan sa bugang hona topik hansa~His hand was injured by broken glass.
tangiang anggiat hita luhut dilean hagompison~Pray that we are all given health
tangiang dohot aropan na rampak mulak~the same prayers and hopes returned
tangiang sian ama panumpak sian ina~Prayer from father, blessing from mother
tangiang sian ina mangiringi pardalanan hu~My mother's prayers accompany my journey
tangianghon ma asa hita saut rongkap~Pray for us to be soul mates
tangiangni anggiat hita luhut dilean hagompison~I pray that we are all given health
tangkas isi parsaulianna sian luhut on~There must be a lesson in all this
tangkas naeng hu radot saburju tupa~I'll definitely take care of it as best as I can
tangkas ni sa marsogot haduan huhilala~that's for sure, tomorrow, the day after I think
tangkas pangke sara tanda putik ni~Definitely use quotation marks
tano timbo maradat asal aek hangoluon~The highlands are the source of the water of life
taon naingkon pillit hapala na denggan~year, it is mandatory to choose a good leader
tar tarhirim dohot punguan salpu mi~a bit disappointed with your past masses
tarago ho sonang ondeng unang biar~You're fooled, just relax, don't be afraid
taralimos bohi ina dohot damang di~I can imagine the faces of my mother and father
taralimos rupana na gasa nangkin arian~I can imagine his furious face this afternoon
tarampe di huta suhul sambola anggoni~located in the southeastern earthquake area
tarboan ibana nangkin kaen ompung doli~He was carrying grandfather's cloth
tarbortik hata sihol bagas tangianghi holong~The word longing comes to mind in my prayers, darling
tardempar bagas harom roha na malungun~stranded in a sinking heart of longing
tarhatotong ho ate mago alai didapot~realize you are not lost but found
tarhiap au marbinege soara ballon mapultak~I was surprised to hear the sound of a balloon popping
tarhiap au rampak pardompahan hu mamak~I was surprised at how wide my forehead was
tarhiap dirihu boasa hamuna songon on~I'm surprised why you guys are like this
tarhira ibana ndang dope umboto pangalahohi~It seems like he doesn't know my character yet
tarhira itohu on naung godang hepeng~Looks like my brother has a lot of money
tarida mangendat na parjolo sian palaspalas~The first interesting fact about the tower
taringot dohot dainangi na sahalak balu~I remember my mother who was a widow
taringot ho saut manektek aek simalolonghi~Remembering you brought tears to my eyes
tarlobi muse ndada isi di son~what's more there isn't one here
tarnata angkang lomo meam bal musem~Turns out my brother likes playing football too
tarnata au jolma sa lomo iburuan~Turns out I'm a jealous person
tarnata ho naung malo marbahasa batak~It turns out you are already fluent in Batak language
tarnata ibana holan gait rampak au~Turns out he was just having fun with me
tarnata isi jolma na marateate lambok~it turns out there are people who are soft-hearted
tarnata karejo sian jabu musem lojana~It turns out that working from home is also tiring
tarnata manghaholongi sasahalak anture parjuangan eksetera~It turns out that loving someone requires extra effort
tarpuji goar mi olo jesus salelengna~Blessed be your name, O Jesus, forever
tarsongon ngingi ansiat sondang bagas haholomon~like teeth as light in the darkness
tarsongon rinte ombun na diombus alogo~like a row of clouds blown by the wind
tarsunggul ho pungkul tolu naung dungo~You woke up, you woke up at three o'clock
tihas hu habir hamu mambahen hu~My character depends on how you treat me
tihas na tigor dohot musem tihas~fair nature and also nature
tikkii pandokna marguru boasa ro muse~I used to say it was training, why did I come again?
timbil hansit mangangguk sopola haruarhon soara~it hurts the most to cry without making a sound
timbo pe tohonanmi ate marlapatan salomom~Even if your position is high, it doesn't mean what you like
timbul torus bangsohu mardeka subang pauneunehon~Keep moving forward, my nation is free, never give up
tingkat asam di sumbu ndang manontu~the level of values on the axis is uncertain
tingki hamu talu hamu gabe babi~when you lose you become a pig
tingki ingkon amangamang sa torkan jo~Her husband has to guess first
tingki jolo hita habir hita sadasa~Our future depends on us
tingki na leleng dohot anture parjuangan~it takes a long time and requires struggle
tiroi ondeng tupa au boi manumpahi~just explain maybe I can help
tiroi roha pandokan targora dohot donganmu~Explain the meaning of the sentence with your friend
tiroi roha pandokan targora tu donganmu~Explain the meaning of the sentence to your friend
tiruan sinjata tandi batak adong ma~An example of a typical Batak weapon is
tiur tuhan naeng binsar ginjang ibana~the light of God will arise upon him
tohap hu naung di gurat pudi~My quota is at the finish line
tok sahali arga sauit tuat sahali~It's so dizzy that palm oil prices have dropped so much,
tokke na mora rea sian medan~a rich boss from Medan
tokkin andorang di jalohon gombar sa~I'm asking for a picture for a moment
tokkin hami giot mamatos parsiajaran malua~Just a moment, we want to start the lesson
tokkin hami naeng mamatos parsiajaran hami~in a moment we will start our lesson
tokkin muse mangan ra sumbaiang jo~I'll eat soon, I'll pray first
tokkin tokkin akor tokkin tokkin martongkar~for a moment, a moment of agreement, a moment of fighting
tolon au asi sahali dohot mi~I swear I really love you
tompu au puna arsak i butuha~suddenly I had a complaint in my stomach.
tonahu unang ro holan di manaritahon~My message is don't come just to disappoint
tondonghu laos bulus alai tongtong sonang~My family is simple but always happy
tongdo boru ni raja i simangunsong~remains the daughter of the kings in the Simangunsong clan
tonggohon dainang hami asa hojot malum~Pray for our mother to get well soon.
tonggohon hami asa dohar mandalanhon poda~Pray for us so we can carry out our mandate
tonggohon inang baju manubuhon dohot ramot~Pray for your aunt to give birth safely
tongkin muse hansur lala do on~Soon this will be destroyed
tongkin muse modom bebe nipi jeges~Soon I'll be sleeping sweet dreams
tongkin muse rittik ndada isi pamasuhon~Soon it will be crazy, there will be no income
tongon ma ni dongan maenhon torus~That's suitable, friend, keep playing
tongos jo gombar hita ni dongan~Send us a picture first, friend
tongos na au pandok nabodari olo~Leave what I said last night
tongosma hepeng di marubat dainang mi~send money for your mother's treatment
tongtong bahen hasalaan das ho tarhirim~always make mistakes until you are disappointed
tongtong balang dohot ndada ra marjehe~always loyal and never want to betray
tongtong dipasupasu tuhan di umurmu on~God will always bless you at this age
tongtong hu taralimos dohot suping manismu~I always imagine, with your sweet smile
tongtong mangaramoti hagompison mi olo asi~Always take care of your health, dear
tongtong manjangkit pa puji dohot tuani~always give praise and thanks
tongtong marpanganju dohot ateate dohot haadongon~always give in to feelings and circumstances
tongtong ra boto aha na dihatai~always want to know what is being said
tongtong sala songonon ma siahapon manjae~always wrong ! this is the fate of being independent
tontu panailian on sai tarjalo pikkiran~Of course this view is very logical
tontuhon hala sa sadihari boi mulak~set a date when you can go home
tontuhon hamuna sian nuaeng tanoman hamuna~determine from now on your graves
torus anggo batu bara, boasa huroha?~And if it's coal, why apparently?
torus anggo tete bou hian teni~And when you defecate, your poop smells really bad
torus ditogutogu au dalan na sintong~continue to guide me on the right path
torus ho bahen sidalian rampak au~you keep making excuses with me
torus ho na mangan teni olo~then you're the one who eats the shit, okay?
torus ise na mangudurhon anggo apala~So who's in charge then?
torus mamorso dohot asi aropan lipe~keep lying and giving false hope
torus ndada di pikkirhon ateate anakna~continuing to not think about his child's feelings
torus sulhut sulu, sulusulu, andang pardamean~continue to light the torch of peace
tu inganan na hamuna giot ebati~to the place you want to visit
tu ise au mangalualu daga ina~to whom do I complain oh mother
tu lung nipi hita manang modom~into our dreamland, aka sleep
tu on asa ndada boi marhutik~Come here so you can't move
tu on ho hatop boan ampe~Come here quickly and bring a mat
tu son ma au lompa joring~This is where I cook jengkol
tu son ma mardomu raphon au~come here join me
tu taboan saut ina jabu balatuk~the joy of being a housewife
tua olo di umur nuaeng on~It's a blessing at this age
tuak dohar dikarejoi gabe gula borta~Palm sap can be processed into palm sugar
tuak sa tonggi na tabo inumon~The sap is sweet and delicious to drink
tuani ma anggo ho denggan ondeng~Thank goodness you're fine
tuarang i japang di jolma pinjil~Popular in Japan for foreigners
tuat andorang murak marminggu i insak~down when religious behavior is discredited
tubu kambang saut anak na hasea~grow up to be a useful child
tubu ni boru sinaga malo nai~The descendants of Boru Sinaga are very clever
tudos hea mida ama pandita on~like I've seen this pastor before
tudos on harangan pe gabe nabung~like this the forest becomes bare
tudos pispis ombun i ginjang bulungbulung~like drops of dew on leaves
tudos sa marbunga roha itohu on~It's like my brother's heart is blooming
tudos somal mataniari binsar simalolonghi tarlonop~as usual the sun rises my eyes set
tudos tobu aekna digagat sobuonna dibalonghon~Ã¢â‚¬Å"like sugar cane, the water is eaten and the dregs are thrown away
tuhan amban abatabat on apala bonton~God why is this ordeal so hard
tuhan andar bagas be parkongsian huriana~God is present in every community of his people
tuhan annon na manorhon ni luhut~God will decide all that
tuhan au manghaholongi sala sada huriam~God I love one of your people
tuhan baurbaurhonma luhut ardoan naposom on~God make all your servant's affairs smooth
tuhan boasa songonon siahapon au tuhan~God, why is my fate like this, God
tuhan dais tangiang anak mi on~God accept your child's prayers
tuhan dongani au nuaeng dohot salelengna~God be with me now and forever
tuhan ho maga boto aha agong~God, you know what charcoal is
tuhan jahoba hu na maga sasudena~God is my all-powerful God
tuhan jesus naung manggonopi uhum patik~God Jesus has fulfilled the law
tuhan lehonma hami dalan huduru sa~God give us a way out
tuhan ma na mamohul hita mardua~God is the one who holds us both
tuhan ma na mangamoti be pardalananhi~God is the one who protects my every journey
tuhan ma na pagogohon hita mardua~God is the one who strengthens us both
tuhan mamasumasu tubu kambang mi asi~God bless your growth and development dear
tuhan manghapian jolma na padimposhon jabuna~God loves people who tidy their houses
tuhan paloas hu manjomaki tahitahi hu~God let me achieve my dreams
tuhan pasadahon ma hami dohot holongmu~God unite us with your love
tuhan pasupasu ma sinta sinta hu~God bless my dreams
tuhan sitompa lung lung marangkup isina~God, creator of the universe and its contents
tuhan tangkas mamalos luhut hadengganon mi~God will definitely reward all your kindness
tuhan tangkas naeng manuturi dalan mi~God will surely direct your path
tuhanhu manogihon dohot manorangi dalan dalanhu~My God guides and lights my path Ã¢â‚¬â€œ my path
tuhanhu songonon ma na ngolu on~My God, this is how life is
tuhe dosa adong ma habadiaon jahoba~the standard of sin is the holiness of God
tuhor manuhor nituhor surat manurat disurat~buy, buy, buy, write, write, write
tuhu do ho dohot parbogason on~Are you serious about this relationship?
tuhu ho martaon imbaru tujabu hu~Seriously, you've only been to my house for years?
tuhu ma martaon imbaru tujabu hu~Seriously, you've only been to my house for years?
tuk au tuhan hansit daging hu~I'm tired, God, my body hurts
tuk pikkiran tuk ateate tuk sasudena~tired thoughts, tired feelings, tired everything
tuk rampak pardagingon mora rampak jolma~tired of you, like people
tulang ho unang pangimbung mida on~Uncle, don't be greedy when you see this
tulang mangallang salak manis ma ho~uncle, you eat sweet salak
tulang ro sian hampung mamboan rambutan~uncle came from the village bringing rambutan
tuli satangkirisap salpu lao maninggalhon bugang~stop for a moment then leave leaving a wound
tulus sa na mida kodak olo~The focus is looking at the camera
tumagon ho rimba hauma ondeng disan~It's better if you just work on the rice fields there
tung pala ila mida leakmu sadasa~It's really embarrassing to see your own behavior
tung tarelek dohot luhut padan manismu~really persuaded by all your sweet promises.
tung tongdo asi au rap ho~However, I still love you
tunjang bal musik dohot marsiajar ugamo~football, music and studying religion
tupa hahatotongon nari mandalhop di pikkiran~maybe the surprise still lingers in your mind
tupa ho andorang repot mangarade borhat~maybe you are busy getting ready to leave
tupa ibana nari giot marusaha mangarindanghon~maybe he still wants to try to prove it
tupa luhut on isi parsaulian sa~maybe there's a silver lining to all of this
tupa sondang asing na ho ida~maybe it's another light you see
tupa tuhan mangalehon tu au pinsangpinsang~maybe God will give me a warning
turgas au naung bagebage sasudena ina~I have completed all my duties, mother
turiturian na dipasahat angkup sorta sagala~The story told by Santun Sagala
turiturian naung leleng di tingki jolo~a classic story for the future
tutu amang arbas ondeng bahasa batak~That's right sir, just use the Batak language
tutu do ho marbada rampak ibana~Is it true that you fought with him?
tutu na au hata pa ni~That's right what I said
tutup hassa ate tois alai hamenakon~glass cover is not overbearing but comfort
ualu minut laos dungkon paniroi manghatai~eight minutes later after the supervisor spoke
ubat aha na ingkon diinum muse~what medicine should I take again?
ubat jambulan ropang dohot santan kalapa~hair loss remedy with coconut milk
uhum di bahen di di paolooloi~Laws are made to be obeyed
ujui ingkon pasilpe i tonga haporusanna~when he had to pass each other in the middle of his flight
ujungna au boto ama dainang ho~Finally I know your father and mother
ujungna nasida mangadonghon dos ni roha~finally they reached an agreement
ulahon dohot lobi dohot sagok roha~work harder and wholeheartedly
ulahonma anggo nimmu ni na umuli~do it if you think it's best
ulan andorang mida gombarna tingki metmet~Budi is looking at a photo of him as a child
ulang pajolo jolo, ulang papudi pudi~repeat first, repeat last end
ulang pajolo jolo, ulang papudi pudi~repeat first, repeat last end
ulaon dainang adong ma jabu balatuk~Mom's job is housekeeping
ulaon las ni roha anak sorang~safe birth
ulaon las ni roha posoposo hami~save our baby
uli utus manarita dohot boru jaua~Beautiful, very suffering and Javanese girls
ulos boi musem lao mangohop daging~ulos can also be used to warm the body
ulos on dibahen dohot ulaula tonun~This ulos is made with a loom
ulospe mampuna gombar manang rumang tartontu~Ulos also has a certain image or shape
ulum ndada isi guna amam mirdong~Your head is useless, your father is dizzy
uluni tot sa naung burburon ni~His knees are brittle
umpama sa be dua pungkul sahali~for example every two hours
umur au satorbang rampak anak ama~I am the same age as your son
unang ajari tu au hata sabar~Don't teach me the word patience
unang ambung pauneunehon di manjomaki hasuksesan~Don't give up easily to achieve success
unang antoi ardoanhu lobi denggan so~Don't interfere in my business, it's better to keep quiet
unang antoi loni rampak ardoan jolma~Don't interfere with other people's affairs
unang apala ma boi dipahatop pa~do not be like that . it can be accelerated, right?
unang apus bohi dohot tangan guting~do not wipe your face with dirty hands
unang baen au buangga leleng aning~Don't make me wait too long
unang bahen au lomos naeng dirim~Don't make me doubt you
unang bahen au mangahap hamagoan ho~Don't make me feel like I've lost you
unang bahen au menak sondot mandaon~Don't make me comfortable until I get used to it
unang bahen hapateon alai natana marenjak~Don't make commitments but are in fact ambivalent
unang be sai marsak ho tatap~Don't always be sad when you look at it
unang biar hipas do ari dison~don't be afraid of a healthy day here
unang bori isi au dison na~don't worry, I'm here
unang buat mirdong buat galas ondeng~Don't worry, just take a glass
unang dabodabo hita rampak rampak batak~Don't be like that, we are both Batak
unang das ae on mardalan tais~Don't let this feeling go too far
unang das biasbias hu saut muruk~Don't let my hatred become wrath
unang das di seat jolma asing~Don't let other people cut you off
unang das hu ribak baba mi~Don't let me tear your mouth apart
unang das jolma hita mapisar bola~don't let our people be divided
unang das loja ho mangajari au~Don't get tired of teaching me
unang das marsapusapu passorion malua ho~Don't get involved in your promiscuity
unang das padan parsingir di siding~Don't let the debtor's promises go wrong
unang di eret annon ho sumolsol~Don't move it or you'll regret it
unang di gonti muse olo jahoba~Don't change it again, God
unang di gonti muse olo tuhan~Don't change it again, God
unang di pgp pogo tardashon sajo~Don't hold back, just say it
unang di sala gunahon hapistaron ni~don't use it wrongly. that cleverness.
unang dibereng puntar ulu annon ho~Don't look at it and your head will explode
unang dibuat na ate bongka sa~Don't take things that aren't your thing
unang dibuat na ate tohap sa~Don't take things that don't belong to you
unang diparhasomal ibana meam na sala~Don't let him get used to playing the wrong way
unang dipasuman anggo ndada ra matutung~Don't imitate it, otherwise it will burn
unang dipasuman anggo ndada ra songonon~Don't imitate it, if you don't want it to be like this
unang disahaphon tu huta annon hansur~Don't hand it over to the local area, it will be destroyed
unang disaor laok hata ompung doli~Don't mix it up with your grandfather's language
unang dophon ambung masalam sarupa hu~Don't take your problems with me lightly
unang elat rampak ngolu jolma asi~Don't be jealous of your loved one's life
unang elek au au nari muruk~Don't persuade me, I'm angry
unang gabe ditiru ho be au~Don't be an example to me
unang gabe ditiru ho ma au~Don't be an example, you are me
unang galeto anggo i lean boto~Don't be stubborn if you're told
unang gaor hamuna au ra modom~Don't worry, I'm going to sleep
unang gele, bundat, bandat, bansat, ballong~don't be slow
unang godang eol ila rampak gararan~Don't be too embarrassed about installments
unang godang marhatai timbul son ho~Don't talk too much, come here
unang godang saritam hupamate ho annon~Don't talk too much, I'll turn you off later
unang gugai ibana nunga puna calon~Don't bother, he already has a candidate
unang hata horisan ho i son~Don't speak your coastal language here
unang hea bias dohot meret roha~never get bored and change your mind
unang hea mamarengkeli parungkilan jolma asing~never laugh at other people's sadness
unang hea mamurai dohot mangasta hu~, never curse or insult me
unang hea martongkar muse olo asi~Don't ever fight again, darling
unang hea martugan tagan ho manjomaki~never switch, before you reach
unang hea mundar roha sian holong~never turn your heart away from love
unang hea ro molo holan manggosa~never come if it only hurts
unang hita ra diparhatoban dohot hepeng~Don't let us be enslaved by money
unang ho anian au dohot ibana~Don't compare me with him
unang ho asi boto pisik on~Don't tell me this secret
unang ho buat au male ina~Don't make me hungry, mother
unang ho dodo au dohot hepeng~don't measure me with money
unang ho ehet goar ama hu~Don't make fun of my father's name
unang ho hail au bahasa batak~Don't bait me into Batak language
unang ho hapodoman di jabu sa~Don't fall asleep at his house
unang ho jonoki muse anak hu~Don't come near my child again
unang ho jua haraan hu olo~Don't refuse my invitation, okay?
unang ho lao tadinghon au hasian~Don't go, stay with me, darling
unang ho lulu pangunsandean na burbur~Don't look for a rotten backrest
unang ho paingot muse tuak ni~Don't remind me of that wine again
unang ho pusa diri mi torus~Don't keep torturing yourself
unang ho tudoshon dirihu dohot biang~Don't compare me to a dog
unang ho ursa ni barang au~Don't be a deer, that's my thing
unang holan ditatap suba nirasahon hadaianna~Don't just look at it, try to feel the pleasure
unang holong parjolo au marujung songonon~Don't let my first love end like this
unang huduru jabu andorang godang pirus~Don't leave the house when there are many viruses
unang i panotnoti loni annon holong~Don't look at it, you'll love it
unang ila di marhatingkoshon bangso batak~Don't be embarrassed to admit the Batak tribe
unang ila pandok sabonarna tu ibana~Don't be shy, tell him the truth.
unang isi bada i holangholang hita~let there be no differences between us
unang isi hata pulik diholangholang hita~let there be no separation between us
unang jotjot ida gombarhu boi mara~Don't look at my photos often, it could be dangerous
unang la ho ehet au torus~Don't keep making fun of me
unang lahang alani luhut puna tuhan~Don't be greedy because everyone has God
unang leleng leleng biar hahapong borngin~Don't be afraid of getting caught in the night for too long
unang leleng leleng muse mangkar sa~Don't stay up too late
unang loja di mangajari iboto parompuan~don't get tired of teaching sister
unang loja ho da manangianghon au~Don't be tired, pray for me
unang lomo manangani masala jolma asing~Don't like taking care of other people's problems
unang lupa dadap andora tagan modom~Don't forget to touch your chest before sleeping
unang lupa dua pulu ualu juni~don't forget June twenty eight
unang lupa ebati dongandongan hita luhut~Don't forget to visit all our brothers and sisters
unang lupa inum sagalas kopi birong~Don't forget to drink a glass of black coffee
unang lupa laho sumbaiang huhut girgir~Don't forget to pray and be enthusiastic
unang lupa mangan bodarina olo asi~Don't forget dinner, honey
unang lupa mangan inong hu hasian~Don't forget to eat, my dear mother
unang lupa manunsi tangan pangke sabun~Don't forget to wash your hands with soap
unang lupa marsogot alapi au di~Don't forget to pick me up tomorrow
unang lupa martata suping dohot sonang~don't forget to smile and be happy
unang lupa nari godang boban mi~Don't forget that you still have many responsibilities
unang lupa nonangan on disesa busbus~don't forget this chat is deleted immediately
unang lupa ompung boru sijolojolo tubu~don't forget your ancestors
unang lupa tonggor hami dongan dongan~Don't forget to watch us friends
unang lupa tuak sagalas olo dongan~Don't forget to drink a glass, friends
unang lupahon angkang angkang mi jo~Don't forget your older brothers first
unang lupahon simpan ma di rohami~Don't forget to keep it in your heart
unang ma annon ho podomi ibana~don't sleep with him later
unang ma arga hepeng boli mi~Don't spend too much money on your dowry
unang ma dibagi hepeng ai i~Don't give me that money
unang ma dibagi hepeng au i~Don't give me that money
unang ma ho mangalojai diri mi~Don't make things difficult for yourself
unang ma ho margapgap mangalo hasintongon~do not lie against the truth
unang ma ho pikkiri ni luhut~don't think about it all
unang ma ho tois rap au~don't be arrogant with me
unang ma holan disurat didok ho~Don't just say you in a letter
unang mahilolong anggo sintong sintong asi~Don't delay if you really love it
unang mamorso anggo ndada giot digabusi~Don't lie if you don't want to be lied to
unang mamorso anggo ndada ra digabusi~Don't lie if you don't want to be lied to
unang mamorso molo ndada giot digabusi~Don't lie if you don't want to be lied to
unang mamunten jolma sian potongan sa~Don't judge people by their appearance
unang mamunten sasahalak dohot sambola mata~Don't judge someone with one eye
unang manaili sasahalak dohot sambola mata~Don't look at someone with one eye
unang mandungoi singa na andorang modom~don't wake up the sleeping lion
unang mangabuk unang digogo unang tarabuk~don't force it, don't force it, don't force it
unang mangalo tu inangmi da damang~Don't fight against your mother, son
unang mangalo tu jolma matua bere~Don't fight with your nephew's parents
unang mangalului hamenakon rampak jolma asing~Don't look for comfort from other people
unang mangaraphon ro hadengganon na lobi~Don't expect more goodness to come
unang mangehet baba ni annon tarharat~don't mock that mouth. you'll get bitten later
unang mangehet jolma annon hona mental~Don't make fun of people or you'll get mentally ill
unang manggotil anggo ndang ra dibebe~Don't pinch if you don't want to be pinched
unang manggulut asi siingoton sa muraan~Don't take it, honey, it looks cheap
unang manghaholongi dua roha sasara marrentaan~Don't love two hearts at the same time
unang manghombar isi babiat andorang maranak~Don't come close, there is a tiger giving birth
unang maniru jolma na lilu dongan~Don't imitate people who are astray, friends
unang mansam mansam dohot angka hata~don't talk like that
unang mansam mansam tongkin muse mate~Don't be like that... you'll be dead soon
unang marlaoan tais di jabu ondeng~Don't travel far, just stay at home
unang marpahu mangantoi ardoan jolma asing~Don't interfere too much in other people's affairs
unang marpahu pardulihon aha hata jolma~don't care too much about what people say
unang marpahu tonggi annon hansit gula~Don't make it too sweet or you'll get diabetes
unang marsoara gogo di inganan marminggu~do not make loud noises in places of worship
unang meam api annon matutung sadasa~Don't play with fire or you'll burn yourself...
unang mengkel ho au marende dangdut~Don't laugh, I sing dangdut
unang na tipu tipu au lae~Don't trick me, brother-in-law
unang ndada dipasahat tona hu on~Don't ignore my message
unang pabandothu annon hu arbing ho~Don't be itchy, I'll hang you next time
unang pabandothu loni sarupa hallet jolma~Don't be irritated by other people's girlfriends
unang padalanhon bongka na magopo dingolumu~Don't do anything in vain in your life
unang pagodanghu di somak somak ho~Don't stay too much in your bushes
unang palelenghu asi annon dibuat jolma~Don't be too late, darling, someone will take it
unang pamasuk roha luhut na hudok~Don't take everything I say to heart
unang pangke bahasa huta di son~Don't use regional languages here
unang parago padan au paima diogai~don't break your promise. I'm waiting to be attacked
unang parhasomal ardoi hangoluon jolma asing~Don't get used to taking care of other people's lives
unang paributhu biar hona topar holan~Don't be loud, you're afraid you'll get punched
unang pasombu masalam di jolma asing~Don't take out your problems on other people
unang pillit hapala tokke sibabi jalang~don't choose a bitch agent leader
unang pola bagak annon taba saingan~You don't have to be beautiful, you'll add competition
unang porsea diri marlobian ho bagak~Don't be overconfident, you are beautiful
unang ra hita di puntar bola~don't want us to be divided
unang rimas ompung doli annon lumpu~Don't be angry, grandpa, you'll be paralyzed
unang ro nandigan ndang giot manontong~Don't come if you don't want to stay
unang ronsot au dainang baen domu~Don't force me to reconcile, mama
unang ronsot au meme baen domu~Don't force me to reconcile, Mama
unang sai garang mangalo ho da~Don't always dare to go against you, okay?
unang sala tatap tu au asi~Don't look at me wrong, darling
unang saut parbadaan annon ho bahen~Don't make it a fight you'll make
unang sihol rampak jolma ni bonton~Don't miss that person so much
unang solhotsolhot isi babiat andorang maranak~Don't get close, there is a tiger giving birth
unang subang pauneunehon dohot lengse nasida~never give up and slaughter them
unang tagi olo tagan ari jumahat~Don't charge before Friday
unang tangihon allam ni ho umuli~Don't listen to that insult, you are the best
unang tarboan ateate unang lupa sonang~don't get carried away by your feelings.. don't forget to be happy
unang tardokhon muse au anak ama~Don't call me your son anymore
unang tardokhon tardokhon goar au muse~don't mention my name again
unang tois anggo sian omo manggulut~Don't be arrogant about what you win
unang tombis au timbul son ho~Don't touch me, come here
unang tuk jo hot ingkon tohom~Don't get tired, you still have to be strong
unang uba tihas alani masala leas~Don't change your nature because of trivial problems
unang undur jahoba dope mamahe mi~Don't give up, God will use you again
unang undur jahoba manontong mamahe mi~Don't give up, God will always use you
unang undur jahoba nari mamahe mi~Don't give up, God still uses you
unang undur jahoba podo mamahe mi~Don't give up, God still uses you
unang undur tuhan nari mamahe mi~Don't give up, God still uses you
unanghon marbadak marsuri pe au marsak~Never mind the powder, I even have a hard time combing
undukhon ondeng asa ho las roha~just do it so you're happy
undungundung au undungundung naumbalga di indonesia~My cottage is the biggest cottage in Indonesia
unsok marende di bilut ganup borngin~ucok sings in the room every night
unsok monggop alani ido mamuntarhon pinggan~Ucok hid because he broke a plate
upa mi annon balga di surgo~Your reward will be great in heaven
urup i marhatai pa di tondong~please talk to your family
urupi dasip jo suratan gurgar on~Please organize this messy writing first
urupi di pauli on na sogir~please fix it, this is dangerous
urupi hami mangalopi panesa sian tuhan~help us ask for forgiveness from god
urupi lean au sara mandapothon naposom~please give me a way to get your servant
urupi ma au jumpa dohot sa~help me meet and meet
urupi ma au jumpa dohot sa~please let me meet him
urupi ma so dohot ulahon turgasna~Please be quiet and do your job
urupi marbarita sahatopna asa hita paradehon~Please let us know as soon as possible so we can prepare
urupi pamian pungkul hu angkang lae~Please save my watch, brother-in-law
urupi pauli au kopi sada galas~please make me a cup of coffee
urupima isi haneangon garar ongkos sa~Please provide relief from paying the rent
usehon hasintongon mi tuhan tarholang hami~Pour out your truth, God, among us
utokutok hu rundut roha hu busisa~My brain is confused, my heart is restless